Excerpted from the entry for the  in Volo's Guide to the Oligarchy of Splendour: The Noble Houses & Merchant Families of Waterdeep
-----

Angus Mortimer, like his own son, apprenticed at the family business as well, though, never assumed control of its operations. He always served as Waldorf's right hand man. While not as skilled in the craft as either his father or son, Angus Mortimer did develop a keen instinct for business. A skill he used to great effect in the distribution of the company's products over the years.

However, as a young man, he had always had a strong leaning towards the alchemical arts. It was this passion, or hobby, that led him to open, in a building adjacent to the Metal Works, the High Road Alchemists. Initially hiring a small group of spellcasters, both arcane and divine, he had thought of doing for the potions market, what his father had done for the cutlery and crockery market. Indeed, the alchemical business did do a very modest trade, but only in specialised, made-to-order potions, instead of the mass-produced numbers he hoped to achieve.

It seemed, for a time, that Angus Mortimer's business acumen had failed him for once. But salvation, and an immensely lucrative product, came to the Refelian family once more.

With the failure of the magical liquids as a viable product, Angus Mortimer decided to market, instead, non-magical herbal remedies. With this concept in mind, he developed the fictional character of Sister Rowena of Chauntea, a portly, happy and matronly woman, under whose name the product would be sold.

The first of these products, Sister Rowena of Chauntea's Curative Elixir, was an instant success in Dock and South Wards. While it has been proven that this curative elixir was no more than sugar-water with a bit of very clever flavouring and colouring, many a lower Ward resident began to swear to the wondrous medicinal powers of the drink.

The bottles of the elixir came adorned with a label, depicting an expertly drawn portrait of the fictional, portly Sister Rowena. Given the level of literacy in the lower Wards, the drink quickly became known only as \"The Fat Nun\", in reference to this picture.

As the popularity of the Fat Nun soared, Angus Mortimer and his alchemists, began to develop different varieties of elixirs and potions. Of these the most popular being, Sister Rowena of Chauntea's Restorative Tonic (flavoured of blueberries, and commonly referred to as the \"Blue Nun\" or \"Fat Bluey\") and Sister Rowena of Chauntea's Elixir of Love (flavoured of strawberries, and commonly referred to as the \"Racy Nun\".) Perhaps one of the most interesting drinks developed by the High Road Alchemists is Sister Rowena of Chauntea's Tonic of Vitality, which is coloured orange and comes flavoured with the appealing taste of that exotic Maztican fruit.

While demand for the Fat Nun products has been high within Waterdeep's lower Wards, owing much to the inexpensive price, and popularity with most everyone, its availability outside Dock, South and Trades has been limited by the scope of production. However, given the recent marriage of this Refelian product with the multi-purpose tin can of the original Refelian business, and the plans for the expansion of the Alchemists' facilities, it will only be a matter of time before these drinks find their way to the upper Wards as well, and beyond the city gates.
