[PC Attribution: Brenan Dale (Todd Burry)]
frame|right
15\"The sea-road is good for wanderers and landless men. There is quenching of thirst on the grey paths of the winds, and the flying clouds to still the sting of lost dreams.\"
:—Robert E. Howard, The Road of Azrael

== Background ==

Brenan Dale grew up in the town of Ashabenford, Mistledale. Not much can be said about his youth or formative years except that he had a quiet father and a loud, overbearing mother. It should then come as no surprise that Brenan also became a quiet man and married a loud, overbearing woman—his second cousin more or less forced onto him by his mother.

After marriage Brenan and his wife moved just outside of Ashbenford near the forest of Cormanthor so that he could ply his trade as a carpenter and general woodsman. Not much can be said about Brenan’s early marriage except that he remained quiet and his wife remained loud and overbearing. The marriage also did not produce a child as Brenan’s wife had a condition that the clerics of Chauntea said made her womb inhospitable to child. This of course became a sore spot for the woman and she blamed Brenan for not making enough to pay for a blessing to cure her condition.

A day came when news of Brenan’s father arrived. His father’s health was failing and he would soon die. Against his wife’s wishes Brenan packed up and returned home to visit his father with his wife in tow.

When Brenan eventually got home his father was already bedridden with Kelemvor perched on his bedpost. Brenan immediately went to his father’s side while his wife went into the kitchen to comfort his mother.

At his father’s deathbed, Brenan and his father shared one last conversation and moment together. What was said in that room cannot really be repeated, but it was something that had never been said between the quiet father and the quiet son and it was something that should have been said years ago.

In the days after his father’s death Brenan took up his responsibility of getting the family finances in order while his mother and wife mourned in melodramatic hysterics. His father was not a rich man, but had saved up a considerable amount of money thanks to his simple lifestyle and stingy wife. After the estate was settled Brenan brought his mother and wife together.

“Father’s things have all been taken care of and now it is time for me to leave. However, when I leave I will be going alone. You see, it is time for me to start living my own life, not the life of my mother or the woman she hen picked for me.
Father’s estate has left enough money for the two of you to live comfortably here for as long as you like. I have also sold my home and property which should leave enough money for a blessing from the church so that you may bear a child by another man—I give you permission and my blessing to do so if you thought you needed it, but I will be your husband no more.”

After Brenan’s speech there was much to be said by his mother and now former wife. Most of the conversation boiled down to a lot of “how dare you?” and “I don’t deserve this,” but no reply came back from Brenan, and truth be told the women probably didn’t even notice.

=== Knights of the Shadow Sword ===

The next day Brenan took work with a caravan along the Moonsee Ride to Tilverton and then another up the North Ride to Shadowdale town. From there he contacted representatives of The Knights of the Shadow Sword and asked to join them for a season in Myth Drannor. Brenan obviously didn’t have the skill to be a member of this group, but they saw something in him and let him on as a carpenter.

With the Knights Brenan mostly repaired buildings around Shaundakul’s throne in Myth Drannor, but he also helped patrol and scout Moander’s Road during safer days. When the season was almost over one of Brenan’s superiors approached Brenan. The man was a wise elf named Fenlar and he had taken Brenan under his wing for the season.

“Well Brenan, you have been with us for a season as we had promised. You have worked hard with us these past months, but as you have seen Myth Drannor is not a place for someone as unskilled as you. I’m afraid that you must depart now. You have done well and I like you so I will escort you to any place in the Dales you like or grant you any request that I am able to grant. What do you wish Brenan?”

To this Brenan gave a large grin and said:

“Thank you for your wise words master and thank you for your kind offer. I knew before I came here that this place was above me, but I came anyway and for my own reasons.

\"Ashabenford where I grew up is a simple town. The people mainly follow Chauntea and Tyr and their lives are kept well by this—all of their questions are answered by the priests and the blessings that the church gives or sells proves the power and right of the gods.
But this doesn’t settle me. I have a sense that there is great mystery in this world. And I have felt this strongest during my long hours staring into the wind. The wind has spoken to me at those times though I have not known what it has said. I stare into the wind until my eyes bleed because those are the only fond times I have ever had in the thirty-two years that I have lived my life.

\"This season ends with the one holy day of Shaundakul who you and the knights follow. On this day I have heard that those that follow Shaundakul may ride with the wind and end up in any place over Toril. All I ask is that you let me take part in your ceremony; let me be a part of the Windride.”

Fenlar looked at Brenan with a father’s smile and put his hand on the man’s shoulder.

“The Windride is indeed coming and I do have the power to let you ride the wind for I time. But I am afraid that none among us has the power to make you ride the wind for as long as you probably wish. Let me make you this deal lad. You come up to the top of Shaundakul’s throne with us; watch the ceremony and see what Shaundakul may bring.”

===The Windride===

The day of the Windride soon came and Fenlar kept his promise and brought Brenan up to the top of Shaundakul’s throne. The ceremony of the Windride if you could even call it a ceremony was very strange to Brenan. There were some toasts made and some songs sung, but nothing grandiose like the temples of Tyr usually see. After a bit of carrying on the wind began to pick up. Its speed became terrible, but it swished like a calm breeze and was very warm. Then one by one the others began to transform into into air and fly away into the sky. The last of these to transform was Fenlar and as he began to fly away he called out to Brenan:

“Good luck my young friend, and may the Rider of the Winds help you on your way.”

With that Fenlar was gone and Brenan was alone. Blowing out his moustache Brenan turned towards the stairs and began to leave. At that moment he heard a voice. It sounded like the same one that he had heard before while staring into the wind, only this time he could understand it.

“There is still mystery in this world lad, and it is beyond me or any other god! What do you think of that? Are you ready to explore that mystery? Are you ready to explore the other winds?”

“I am ready and I am willing Shaundakul if you will have me!” Brenan cried trying to be heard over the loud swooshing of the wind.

“Then let us go and see where the wind takes us!” Said the voice and Brenan transformed into air and rode away with the wind.

== Appearance and Bearing ==

Brenan Dale is tall and rather slender except for a slight pot belly that gives him the appearance of having no waist. He is tawny-skinned like most Dalesman of Chondathan heritage. His almost black hair recedes slightly from his forehead. He has a similarily coloured long drooping mustache that waves about with his head movements. Brenan’s brown eyes have a kind appearance and are almost always crusted with sand around the edges from staring into the wind for too long.

Brenan usually wears a sturdy, but plain traveling clothes. His cloak is kept oiled to repel the rain and his boots are watertight enough to trudge through the mud. He keeps his pack filled to the brim with all his worldly possessions so that he may travel where he wills at a moments notice. Durning his woodsman days Brenan would carry two shortswords. Lately he has taken to carrying a two-handed greatsword because that is the weapon of Shaundakul. Brenan also usually wears a pair of leather gloves. On the back of the left one is his holy symbol to Shaundakul which he carved himself out of wood. The holy symbol is not like typical ones where subtleties usually make the patron god hard to determine. Brenan’s symbol is plain and easy to make out as one of Shaundakul to anyone that knows even a bit about religion.

Brenan was a quiet man for the first thirty-one years of his life, but he is quiet no more. He enjoys light hearted conversation and is apt to enjoy someone else’s company right on first impressions. Brenan is proud of his faith and he always makes reference to the winds or The Helping Hand. He displays his holy symbol as his personal wave and salute by holding up his left fist near his forehead. Brenan doesn’t usually worry with making group decisions as he is agreeable with most points of view, but when he decides on something himself he will not waiver.

category:Todd
