[PC Attribution: Cedric Blackchalice-Lliandreal (Casey Bauman-Wike)]
The following is an excerpt from “A Shadow of Heroism: the Memoirs of Cedric Blackchalice-Lliandreal
----

... which reminds me of another time I spent with a certain “black-hearted” tiefling conjurer.

I was passing the scorching summer days of late Flamerule and early Eleasis in Calimport much as any other young man of means might; sleeping until the sun’s pending retirement made the outdoors more bearable, then partaking of the various delights of the Jewel of Calimshan. Typical evenings began at one of the restaurants close to my villa where Edgar and I would dine on the excellent local offerings and play a nightly game of chess. After dining, it was off to the theatre for a bit of show and beauty or, depending on my mood, it was off to one of the two Great Arenas for some thrills and excitement. Sometimes I would spend hours getting lost in the bazaar district, braving the cut-purses and conmen to catch a glimpse of all Faerûn’s offerings laid bare in tents and baskets. There was a most excellent selection of books there that I have rarely found since, and also some of the finest smoke weed known to mortal or god. If my recollection of Calimport is somewhat murky, it is in no small part due to the quality and quantity of my smoking days there. As the drink and smoke took its toll and the arenas and theatres closed my travels and explorations would invariably take me to the harems of the city. What can I say of these? It is true what the Calishites say: there are indeed 101 ways of making love and their harems are devoted to perfecting each and every one of these.
==An Urgent Missive==
It was in one such place that I was given a message most mysterious to relay to one of my good friends, the famous Maevri of Rashemen, the Open Harper. Maevri’s allies could not at that time contact her directly so they had set about subtly guiding her travels towards Calimport and had set me in her path with a message. The message was a typical offering from that lot; cryptic and vague it said nothing, yet said it with the utmost urgency. The gist of it was that Mae was to travel to Westgate to receive another cryptic message from another vague source. Colour me surprised. I love these cloak and dagger guys.

Still the message in and of itself was good tidings for I had been dearly missing Mae and the rest of our friends aboard that most famous ship. I think that of that crew, Edgar missed most the company of Captain Mudge, although he is certainly fond of Mae’s flattery as well. What that bird sees in the old sea rat I will never know. Perhaps I should have done as Edgar, and spent more time at the helm learning from the captain, rather than smoking the nights away with Salazar. Just thinking of my friends started the old Blackchalice wanderlust stirring within my heart and I suddenly knew that no force in Faerûn could hold me to Calimport once they had arrived.
==Eyes to the Sea==
And so I set my servants about watching for The Wastrel’s arrival. Days passed without sign of the ship. Edgar and I spent our time getting our affairs in order and purchasing supplies for our pending voyage to Westgate, namely rare spices for my cooking, and a goodly supply of smoke weed. I also spent most nights with Haranna, whose beauty and wit I had come to appreciate above all the other girls in Calimport. It would be years before I would see her fair countenance again.

At last came the evening when an outburst from my faithful servant Dango (not the Dengo that Chadrazzan would come to rue) interrupted my nightly luncheon. Leaving Edgar to supervise the packing of the last of our belongs in the villa, I rushed past the nobles through the elevated streets and hurried down through the commoners below to meet my fellow crew members. Arriving at the docks I saw my friends aboard The Wastrel. Kethoth (as he was then known) was descending the gangplank and just as I was about to wave a greeting an attacker materialized beside the dumbfounded tiefling and began an unsolicited assault upon his personage. 

Well, I know Chadrazzan has his social shortcomings, but this seemed a little over the top to me. It was then that I noticed that the Wastrel itself was under attack. Some sort of floating island was raining down spells and arrows upon my shipmates. Captain Mudge rallied the troops and The Wastrel tried to outmanoeuvre its magical pursuer. Veiling myself with invisibility, I started to close the considerable distance between the violence and myself. My attention to the naval battle was diverted by a sharp cry from the docks. Kethoth’s assailant had struck a bloody blow against him. Kethoth responded with all the power of his black arts, calling forth every demon at his disposal and interposing them between his attacker and himself. Hoping to aid the wounded conjurer I summoned forth a figment of a fearsome monster and set it upon our foe. Unfazed, the villain continued in his single-minded pursuit of his objective. As if aware that his prey’s demonic minions were finite in their time on Toril the assassin withdrew from the combat, vanishing into thin air.

==Friends in Peril==

About this time Kethoth must have noticed that The Wastrel was heading away from Calimport with the flying fortress quick at its heels, for he ran down the docks towards his retreating home. His fiendish menagerie pursued the invisible assassin to the best of their abilities, but he was too skilled and fast for them. I completely lost our foe until Kethoth alerted me to his presence approaching me. Reaching into the plane of shadow, I formed some shadow-substance into a humanoid shape and veiled it with the likeness of a bloodthirsty ape. I set the ape directly in the path of our fleeing opponent and it set upon him, delaying him until the fury of Kethoth’s pets might catch him in its toothy maw. Knowing that to stay another instant would mean facing still more fiendish and shadowy foes, our silent attacker chose the better part of valour, and bolted for the pier. For all his skill and speed he was not fast enough, and the hounds of Kethoth dragged his soul back down with them to the infernal planes from whence they came.
Alone on the dock at last, with no sign of The Wastrel in sight, Kethoth and I examined our foe in hopes of gaining some insight into his motivations. I recognized the hue of his skin as akin to those folk from Anauroch I had met on my travels. Other than that there was little we could discern. After quickly sketching his likeness we abandoned the would-be assassin and returned to the safety of my villa. The two of us agreed to discover the fate of The Wastrel in the morning, and over some wine he told me of his travels of late. Kethoth was hiding his worries for his friends under the pretense of fear for his material possessions aboard our ship, but I could tell that his sleep that night was restless for reasons other than concern for his favourite clothes.

Chadrazzan and I agreed that immediate contact with our companions was of the utmost urgency. I suggested the Thayvian method for contacting friends afar using a scrying mirror and, lacking such a device, the two of us proceeded to the Mages' Guild at once, despite my usual distaste for such places. It is my firm belief that it is the rigidity of arcane study that leads to the pointless pomp and circumstance of mage interrelations. All that formulae memorization, endless repetition of rote spell-casting, and the labelling and parcelling out of art enforces a certain structure upon those involved. Much as a pickled cucumber up one’s behind enforces a certain structure on a humanoid. It is really quite similar. Anyways, after much hoity-toity, how-do-you-do’s we are able to ascertain that The Wastrel was safe, although still pursued by the island fortress. My message is relayed to Maevri, and the two of us agree to meet our companions in Baldur’s Gate. Chadrazzan and I agree that we should investigate Westgate first, as the Harpers seemed to believe that there is information there that is of import to the both of us. Mae’s contact suggested that we contact “the Free Thinker” upon arrival there, and we set out to do so at once.

== Aboard the Bodiger ==

The very next morning Edgar, Chadrazzan, and I board The Bodiger. The captain is a nice enough fellow who is reminiscent of Zechary Mudge in his salty straightforwardness. Kethoth (as he prefers to be addressed in front of the crew) and I were lucky enough to have our own private cabin to share, although later discovered that it had traditionally belonged to the first mate. I don’t know what was worse that voyage; the hostile glares of the first mate, or Kethoth’s infernal snoring. Thank Corellan for the crate of everquist I brought along. Edgar, unwilling to find reprieve through alcohol, took to staying above decks, or sleeping through the day.

Travel on the Bodiger was slow, much slower than travel aboard The Wastrel. I passed the breezy hot days as best I could. Kethoth was too busy with his scrolls and research to be much fun. While I agree that power is enjoyable, what use is the pursuit of power if one must forsake all other forms of enjoyment? Regardless, at nights I could count on his presence in the captain’s quarters along with Edgar and the captain himself, for it pleased me to spend a portion of each day preparing my favourite dishes from across the realms for the four of us to enjoy. And after we had eaten our fill, the everquist and bloodwine and Calishite brandy would flow and the captain would regale us with tales of the sea. And every once and a while when the bloodwine had loosened his tongue sufficiently, Kethoth would also thrill us with a tale of a tomb robbing “research” expedition. It is easy to forget that he is hundreds of years old until he tells a tale of the events of centuries ago that he witnessed first hand.

== Baldur's Gate to Iriaebor==

When I was not cooking I spent my time writing and painting and lost in wine and the smoke. Time passed satisfactorily thusly until we reached Baldur’s Gate. I can tell you that setting foot on land, I was a little more than eager for some female companionship. Unfortunately, Kethoth was all business. We quickly arranged passage by river barge to Iriaebor. This time the journey substantially shorter, but the cramped accommodations began to wear on Kethoth and I. The crew were most apprehensive of his appearance, and he spent most of the nine hot, cramped, days under cover of his massive cloak. I was envious of Edgar’s ability to take flight at will, and although I bade him not to stray too far, I could not deny him some measure of escape. I decided then and there that travel by commercial barge was not for the likes of me. Better to hire a private barge, or better yet, a coach. Surely with a coach Chadrazzan would attract much less attention.

And so it was with great joy that we set foot in Iriaebor. Kethoth was all business, stating, “Time is our enemy” as a rational reason not to blow off some steam in the first festhall in sight. That man could see enemies in a field of daisies, and treachery in a sunset. To this very day he remains so. I wonder what it is that he is so fearful of. As usual Edgar and I bent to his wishes and the three of us proceeded to book a room in an inconspicuous and boring, if quaint, inn. 

The next morning Kethoth summoned forth a mount for himself, and was about to do likewise for me when I beat him to the punch. Forming a mount from shadow-stuff I draped it in a glamour most complimentary to Kethoth’s own mount. He acted a little indignant at my refusal of his hospitality, and then he pretended not to care. But I could tell that he was a tiny bit impressed with the effortlessness and style with which I pulled it all off. We rode our magical mounts far harder than I would have pushed a horse of flesh and blood, and consequentially made very good time. The next morning as I summoned up another shadow-mount Kethoth commented, “Decided to summon a real one today, did you old boy?” which suggested that he was both aware of the true nature of my shadow weaving, and also that he was sometimes fallible to it. We all have our secrets and it was good to know that, unlike my family, he harboured no ill will towards the nature of my in-born abilities.

We made excellent time along The Trade Road, and could have made better time yet if I wasn’t conserving my talents for an emergency. I was afraid of a repeat of that nasty business that happened that time in Cormyr, but we were spared such unpleasantries. At any rate, both the time and the countryside passed pleasantly along the trade road. Edgar was my constant companion, of course, and of this Chadrazzan seemed almost envious. One night when were playing chess he pretended to be ever-so-interested in his books, but I feel that were we to offer to include him in a game of cards his reluctance would be poorly feigned, at best. It is too bad that the old bird has not the fingers to hold a hand of five-card dwarven draw. The next day, Edgar asked him why he had not taken a companion of his own, but his inquiries were met only with a thoughtful silence. After that we played chess less, and drank wine more.
