Kethoth mounts up after leading the horses across the rubble. He takes a long look at the edges of the forest, looking for close and dangerous enemies. \"Take a good look before we head out, Tyriol; your eyes are younger than mine. Make sure we are safe to leave.\" (My perception is 5, my nature 7)

(if it doesn't look like we will be instantly overrun by some ogre or giant that is 6 squares away...)

Kethoth looks down at Hrogan, and puts a finger alongside his nose. \"I am about to play a small ruse; I am sure that there are spies nearby that can hear or see us. Just go along with me, and make sure the gates are open at the back when we return.

With this, Kethoth rears up his horse, and shakes a fist at the dwarf. Shouting as loud as he possibly can \"The devil take you all, if you can't see that you are all doomed! Defend this festering barn and the whores and numb-skulls that sleep upon the dung heaps herein! Kethoth will not die a fools' death here!\" (Bluff +15, possible +2 circumstance bonus for truly believing what he says about whores, numb-skulls and dung heaps?)

With this, he gives the dwarf a wink, then bolts off, towards the deserters.

over a year ago · Delete Post

Steve Hicks Even in the downpour, fires can be seen to the south where the forest wasn't cut down, and clearly the hobgoblins have managed to cobble together some crude structures in the forest in order to shelter them from some of the rain.

Even though he was \"in\" on Kethoth's ruse, Hrogan's eyes still widened in surprise at the false conviction Kethoth managed to put in his tone.

Both Tyriol and Kethoth had to strain to see if there's anything ill waiting for them in the shadows to the south of the settlement and after a few moments, things look \"relatively\" clear as it's hard to see much of anything in the dark as well as the rain.

Both riders needed to follow the river to the east, back towards the Graypeaks and the foothills that the settlement was nestled in. The rain hammered down on them mercilessly and they needed to ride slower than they would have wished for fear of their horses tripping over something in the dark. They had to ride for close to an hour until they were able to come to a part of the river that was shallow enough for them to cross so that they could head north again and hopefully pick up the trail that was left by the deserters as they fled north.

The rain hadn't helped with the temperature and not only was the night cold, but the water was freezing as the tiefling and half-elf carefully rode their horses through the shallower part of the river before emerging upon the other side.

It was cold and miserable, the rain pounded down upon them like hammers and both Kethoth and Tyriol were biting back words of anger before settling on a course to head north and hopefully pick up the trail of the deserters.

They were just starting to move once more when they heard a voice. It was low, quiet, calm and just loud enough to be heard above the rain.

\"Hold...Hold up.\"

Coming out of the shadows of the forest was a being in a dark, soaked hooded cloak and hands reached up to adjust it slightly to reveal what was beneath the hood and the half-elven features of Ghedorh Furrowford could be seen.

The druid that had tasked the party with helping atone for the havoc they had wrought was smoothly flanked on either side by a strange, \"tree-ish\" looking creature as well as a slender, whip-thin and tall plant-like creature.

\"Not long before you decided to run?\" , queried Ghedorh
over a year ago · Report

Steve Hicks Kohr shrugs his broad shoulders and grumbles irritably.

\"I'd be happy if the druids and wizards would simply mind their own business. One group always meddling with the other. They're both part of the problem, in fact I...\" , Kohr's words were cut off as he heard Kethoth's damnation of Kohr'Murron and glowered hatefully as he watched the tiefling and the half-elf ride off.

\"If I ever see those two again, the reunion will be a short-lived one. \" Turning and stalking away from the crudely repaired wall as he growled angrily. \"It's good to see that some of you have some mettle, swordsman. Should we survive this, I'll see to it you and those you accompany are well-rewarded.\"

Volund had spent enough time traveling with Ghedorh as well as growing up in the \"Circle\" that he recognized \"assisted\" rainfall when he happened upon it. He was unsure why Ghedorh would take part in more rain to fall when the fire had been put out a few days ago and far to the south east of here but it definitely was unnatural.

Volund needed to only walk around the back of the hall to find two brawny figures toiling in the mud with heavy spades. The priest of Kelemvor and the dragonborn shoveled with a sense of heavy purpose, nearly covered in mud from head to toe as they took turns digging the grave. Close by, was the fair-haired swordmage by the name of Arya. She was simply watching the two men dig, a look of sorrow on her face did nothing to mar her beauty while the rain did an exemplary job of concealing the tears that were rolling down her perfect skin.
over a year ago · Report

Chris Hicks The ranger halted his steed, warily examining the trio that blocked his and the wizard's path. (Nature check on the creatures.) He vaguely recognized the druid, although no name crossed Tyriol's frustrated and weary mind. Somewhat nervously, he looked aside at Kethoth, mustered his composure, and spoke.

\"You mistake us for cowards, good druid. As it so happens, you are interrupting our search. Please step aside.\" The ranger was surprised at his brusque reply - the tone of his voice indicated that the ranger's words were not a request, but moreso instructions. Perhaps it was the tiefling wizard's proximity to Tyriol that bolstered his confidence so. Regardless, he remained motionless in his saddle, eyes focused on Ghedorh's expressionless face.

Subtly, he tucked the bundle containing Arlyn's remains into the satchel strapped around the small of his back. He had yet to find a proper place to store it, but at least the stench of it was concealed.
over a year ago · Report

Kethoth Sepret Kethoth gives a chuckle. He addresses the druid warmly. \"Forgive Tyriol his direct manner of speaking just now. He is tired, wounded, soaked and hungry, and frustrated from this fool's errand I have had him accompany me on. 

\"We are searching for 10 deserters who we hope to inspire some courage in. We need every hand we can get at the ranch. The monsters set about it will strike again soon, and I want to add their bows to our common defense. 

\"Do you know where they might be found? Or better yet, Master of Wilds, do you think you could lend some assistance in the defense. I would happily abandon a search for 100 of these men, if I had but one of your number with me, and the menacing retinue that serves you so faithfully.\"

(Diplomacy +12 with Tyriol beside me.)
over a year ago · Delete Post

Chris Hicks (Thumbs up)
over a year ago · Report

Jeff Hicks Volund walked over and stood next to the weeping beauty, Arya, and watched silently for a few moments as the cleric and dragon toiled with the heavy burden of burying a fallen comrade. He felt uncomfortable with the situation, standing there not knowing quite what to say or how to act. Having never fully dealt with the disappearance of his own family has hardened his heart somewhat and caused it to callus in the face of personal loss. His growing up in the Circle has taught him to understand and sympathize the destruction of woodland and robbed him of his ability to empathize with those around him. Volund found he was indifferent toward death, and he did all he could to muster a silent stoicism for the dead man.

He foolishly asked them, \"Is there anything I can help with?\" Anticipating a proud and stern, \"No\" from either, if not both of them.

To Volund's eyes the body's wrappings appeared the finest white, even with the weather the way its been and how far they have travelled he never really paid attention to just how clean it has managed to stay. He suspected form of ritual or divine aid, having grown up in a sheltered and paranoid community the doings of a cleric are a curiosity.

Volund's thoughts wandered for a moment, \"I wonder if their God of Death was delivered my family all those years ago.\"

\"What foolishness,\" he thought, \"The Gods care only of themselves, otherwise they would still be here. They don't even care for their own, how ironic that a paladin of death was the first of this company to fall.\"
over a year ago · Report

Steve Hicks Ghedorh pushes his hood back far enough so that his fine half-elven features could be revealed and so that he might get a better look at the rain-soaked tiefling and half-elf. An amused look crossed his face as he listened to the tieflings words and he gave the glimmer of a smile.

\"Even when I know I'm being manipulated by you, I still find myself inclined to go along with your request. You're a strange one Sepret and although I do not...\"

Ghedorh was momentarily cut off by the grumbling, dry shout of thel tree-like being that had up to this point been simply glaring malevolently.

\"KOSSUR!\"

Croaked the creature that as it drew closer, Tyriol recognized as a legendary \"wood woad\". The thing took three steps closer, out of the shadows of the forest and spoke again, slamming it's heavy club against it's wooden shield.

\"KOSSUR!\"

It glared menacingly at Kethoth and Ghedordh looked back over his shoulder before looking back to Kethoth and Tyriol and giving them a weary look. He spoke in a firm, but seemingly tired voice.

\"Bogrun, hush.\"

The plant-like being that Arya had earlier before identified as a Wilden simply watched from the shadows, it's triangular-shaped black eyes simply taking in the entire scene.

The wood woad; seemingly intorduced as \"Bogrun\" returned back to the shadows of the trees as Ghedorh commanded before Ghedorh continued once more. He extended his arms and held out his hands, palms up as he spoke.

\"This is our assistance. Were it not for this, that settlement would be consumed with fire and hopefully, this soaks the wood enough that you shouldn't have to worry about fire in the future. All you must do is simply survive. We have other pressing matters that...\"

The Wilden stepped out of the shadows, alien and exotic looking, it moved in an unsettling manner, graceful and flowing but it's lack of joints made it's motion all the more unnerving.

\"Sooooooomethiiiiiing cooooooomes.\"

The Wilden pointed it's finger up through the clearing in the canopy towards the sky and Ghedorch looked down for a moment, muttering something softly and then growing quiet before suddenly lifting his head and giving Kethoth and Tyriol a wild-eyed look.

\"Get those horses in the shadows, NOW.\" he harshly hissed before backing away from them and disappearing into the shadows of the woods.\"
over a year ago · Report

Steve Hicks The rain continued to fall and Mattrick looked to Volud for a moment as Volund spoke. His mud-spattered face clouded with anger for a moment before Lucretius laid a heavy hand on his shoulder. The two of them shared a silent moment before Mattrick looked down into the grave he had been digging with Lucretius and climbed out of it. 

He looked at Volund before offering the swordsman the muddy spade and spoke quietly but firmly.

\"One more strong back would be of use to finish this off. My thanks. Do not think to blame the Grey Lord for what transpired. Kelemvor did not fail. T'was I that failed. My hunger for blood was so great that I failed to assist my brother in arms when assailed on all sides. So great was my bloodlust that I chose to assault a helpless opponent rather than defend my charge of nearly two decades. It is my only solace that in my failure, the Grey Lord will be there for my brother and his son where I was not. Baird died well but it was a needless death and rests solely upon my shoulders.\"

Walking past Volund and Arya he began to tend to the shrouded corpse before looking up once more.

\"Do not be so quick to forsake the gods Volund. They move in circles that are far larger than we can imagine. The only thing that might be foolish is presuming one way or the other what a god has planned or what a god does or does not care about. I am no god, nor are you. I would not presume to think otherwise.\"
over a year ago · Report

Jeff Hicks (Mattrick reads minds? :P )
over a year ago · Report

Steve Hicks { Oh...thought. Fak. Yanno...I thought that it was a bit aggressive of Volund to say such things and wondered a bit why you'd write that and then...well..so yeah...a shortcoming of the medium and writing this at 1 am on my BLURRY FUCKING MONITOR!!!! I'm buying a new one today, goddamit. If Sarah divorces me...well...them's the breaks.)
over a year ago · Report

Chris Hicks (Mattrick and Volund were OBVIOUSLY wearing the telepathy rings.)
over a year ago · Report

Kethoth Sepret As the tree-thing formerly in my employ as a bandit screams my unwelcome name and glares at me, I look behind be, as if to look for whatever the hell a Kossur is.

\"Is your...servant...ok? He seems to be talking gibberish.\" (Kethoth is *mortified* to hear that name, by tries to play cool. Bluff +15)

(Do I know what the fuck that thing is? Did we discuss it? What do I knot about Wood Woads? Nature +7)

\"Ahh..I wondered if this rain was yours. It is a welcome aid at the ranch...\"

With the warning given by the other animated plant, I lead my animal into a shadow, slipping naturally into the darkest bit of forest nearby (Stealth +6), and motion for Tyriol to do the same.
over a year ago · Delete Post

Chris Hicks Tyriol follows Kethoth's lead, examining the trees as he does so. The ranger places a quiet hand on his mount's neck, murmuring words of assurance into its ear.
over a year ago · Report

Jeff Hicks (Oh, I hope you weren't waiting for my response :S - I've been waiting this whole time for a redo on Mattrick's dialogue, no biggie.)

Volund takes the shovel and helps dig Baird's grave.
over a year ago · Report

Steve Hicks The moonlight that was filtering in through the sparse canopy of the grove that the five individuals were speaking in was suddenly devoured by the shadow of something that was flying overhead.

The air was disturbed, tree branches swaying and leaves falling as large, unseen wings sent the surrounding forest into turmoil. Whatever was up in the air was clearly hovering over the grove while Kethoth and Tyriol kept to the shadows, staying silent and doing what they could to keep their mounts silent. (Stealth checks, success for both) Although they had been speaking to Gedorh and the other two only moments earlier, a quick look around showed that the three had seemingly disappeared.

Tyriol's horse trembled with anxiety and dismay but the quiet words of encouragement from the half-elf ranger kept the frightened beast quiet. (Nature check success)

Kethoth didn't have the same good fortune however. (Nature check failure) Even though whatever beast it was that hovered overhead was obscured in the night sky and the shadows of the evening, it's presence was palpable even down in the grove where they hid. Kethoth's horse reared suddenly, whinnying in terror and it was all that Kethoth could do to stay on his mount's back. (Mount check, success)

There was a loud sound in the air above the grove. Part roar and part hiss and the shadow that was filling the grove began to grow as the beast lowered.

\"Run!\" Shouted Gedorh as he charged out of the shadows, flanked on either side by his two strange companions. The shadow lowered still and soon the beast could be seen. It had a large, reptillian head, covered in horns and bony nodules, it's maw was stained reddish black and glistened with blood and (perception check success) Tyriol immediately noticed that a severed lower leg hung from it's mouth. It's wings might have stretched forty feet if it hadn't needed to contract them as it sunk into the clearing. It had two legs that ended in wickedly curled claws but the most surprising thing about the appearance of the beast was that there was a large orc riding it. It wore a gleaming helm similar to the shape of a roaring dragon's head and while it kept the heavy chains that controlled the beast held tightly in one large fist, it held a spear in it's other hand.

\"Run you fools! Warn Kohr'Morrun!\" , Gedorh yelled again, the last of his words turning into feral growl as his face turned into something more feline shaped, his hands outstretched and turning into claws as he threw himself at the orc and the beast he rode.

The orc hurled the spear, missing Gedorh but striking the heavy wooden shield carried by Bogrun and knocking the wood woad to the ground, all while the beast reared, lifting higher into the air, dodging the leaping attack of Gedorh and lashing out with it's scorpion-like tail, missing Gedorh in turn only to have the Wilden wrap it's slender, tendril-like fingers around the tail of the beast, grappling it and being lifted upwards into the air as the beast bellowed in excitement over the prospects of more blood to be shed this night.
over a year ago · Report

Steve Hicks A loud roar could be heard to the east of Kohr'Murron and it interrupted the tension-filled silence in the air and momentarily disrupted the spattering of the rain upon the ground where the small group worked to dig a grave.

Lucretius looked up sharply from where he was digging beside Volund, the heavy ridge above his eyes furrowing as he looked up into the downpour falling from the night sky.

\"That bodes ill...\" , he grumbled.

Arya drew her blade, filled with sorrow and tension but it was clear to all present that whatever it was, it was far from the stables...for the moment.

A second similar roar shortly accompanied the first, once again, far to the east and as Lucretius climbed out of the grave and reached down to offer a hand to Volund he turned his head to look to Mattrick.

\"We should wait for the others.\"

Mattrick didn't look up from his tending to Baird's covered corpse as he snapped bitterly.

\"Why? We lost Baird and we seem to fail at fostering enough loyalty with those we've spilled blood with that the tiefling and the half-elf fled the first moment they could. I am tired of this place. I am tired of this fool's errand my brother and I have been set upon and I am tired of the people Kelemvor has chosen to saddle me with for the last month.\"

over a year ago · Report

Kethoth Sepret Kethoth slaps his horse on the rump and bolts off. \"Make your way to the ranch, pup! We have found the men we are looking for! They are in the belly of that lizard, and Kethoth will not end likewise!\"

Kethoth makes for the ranch as fast as possible.

\"It would be a pity if any of those forest abominations were to find their way into the belly of that dragon\" Kethoth mused to himself.
