DDC – 1480 – 2: A Discussion with Administrator Reks about The Dark Garden 
Wherein your humble chronicler records verbatim, and for your benefit dear reader, the memories of Administrator Reks with regards to the woman known as Deadnettle, part of the Coven of the Dark Garden. 
GFD Notes: 
This is the conversation recorded exactly as it played out, that Reks and I had about the Dark Garden, Deadnettle, and some other affairs around the same time. While Deadnettle could almost be considered a footnote in the Chronicle, her discovery and utilization of Gorimdun mine is significant, as this was the inciting incident to attract the entirety of the Tethyamar League to the area, and the incredible recovery effort (it is still underway as I write this) beneath the mountain. 
It should also be noted that the wizard Thagdul appears again. Only in name and legend, but his hand still seems to be at work in the dale after all this time. 
-GFD 
Grafton Fitzdecker: Thank you, Mr. Reks. Would you mind if I have this discussion transcribed for my chronicle? 
Administrator Alen Reks: Oh please do, please do, please do! 
GFD: Thank you. We were talking about the Dark Garden, and the affairs of 1480. Very intense year by all accounts. What can you tell me about Deadnettle? 
AAR: Oh, she was a nasty bit of work, wasn't she? Or was she? Yes, I think rather she was. At the very least, she was dirty and smelly. Or so I'm told. I wasn't there at the end. Oh no, I was administering, as you can well imagine. 
But that's not what you want to hear now is it, precious? No, it isn't. 
Deadnettle was reallyChapter Twoof the Dark Garden affair. Chapter One really didn't get written; Dretch and Swift saw to that, as you'll recall me telling you. They rooted out that coven, even if they didn't realize how thorough a job they'd done. [AAR gets into a fit of laughing and snorting] 
Oh meDretch was so convincedwait, he won't read this will he? Of course he won't. Where was I? 
Dretch was convinced that Lotus was a Tenku, or some sort of bird lady. Ha ha, too good! For all his 'inquisitor' talk, he's really not smarter than you, or certainly I. He's just determined and doesn't know there are limits to what one body ought to do. But he did stop Lotus and rescue Dwimmerholme. They had problems there with devils a year later, I think I may have mentioned. He didn't sniff those out, did he? Well, actually, he might have. I'd have to get to my notes. You won't mention any of this to him, will you? 
GFD: No, he won't talk to me. Deadnettle 
AAR: Yes! Deadnettle, Chapter Two [he says with a great flourish, getting out of his chair, which was once very fine I'm sure, but now is mouldering leather]. Wherein our heroes vanquish the Black Druid Deadnettle! [he lets out a great sigh, and slumps back into his chair] 
Or rather, they could have. Should have! Indeed! 
But let me start where our wonderful audience will have a chance to understand! 
By Greengrass of 1480, we had assembled another team. I say 'we', but it was really Lumina's show back then. She was the captain, and she was ambitious. She had done enough up the Castle to earn us a tower, and she used it a recruiting centre. Young, ambitious, if foolhardy, men and women would show up looking to chase after Luminous' silly 'bounties', and they wouldn't have enough coin for a bed or a bowl of something warm. That's where we came in! We'd feed these pups, put them to bed, even give them a potion from time to time, and wish them luck as they risked their lives for some of that [and here he drums his fingers together in front of his face, making a hideous contorted smile] Whitegate Gold[and he laughs maniacally]. The gold was running out, but no one knew that yet. I suspected it, but I didn't tell anyone. So I won't say 'I told you so' when I didn't actually say 'so', but I had my suspicious. 
GFD: So, Deadnettle 
AAR: Yes, so Deadnettle! Smelly, dirty. Did we establish that? I think we did, but it's worth the emphasis. Druids are simply the worst when it comes to cleanliness, aren't they? Black Druids, even more so. She smelled like she may have been humping the trolls she was spawning[he claps his hands together and cocks his head to one side and smiles]trollspawn, yes! You've gotten us quite off course, Mr. Fitzdecker. 
There were trollspawn up at Tesh Valley Farm, you see. Deadnettle found some monster that you could feed other monsters to, and it would make an obscene version of them. She could control them somehow (which is how I suspect she got them to hump her), and she unleashed them on the good farmers, or at least the cattle, of Tesh Valley Farm. 
Of course, like her sisters, she had other critters doing her bidding up there. Wolves andI can't remember what else. But the point is this; she was just trying to hurt the farm enough for her cult to really take off. You see, there were already some cultists at the farm, though Dretch never discovered them himself, did he? No he did not! Well, he did, but it took a VERY long time. You won't mention any of this to him, will you? 
GFD: Of course 
AAR: Of course you won't, you've said as much haven't you, ha ha, and you're a good man aren't you? Not too good, let us hope. 
But we were talking about Deadnettle. She had laid a trap at Tesh Valley, specifically to lure out the Whitecloaks, and it worked. We already knew that the Dark Garden was growing in strength; rumours of the Black Hand of Gerbil Trebuchet were discovered by our heroes, and they were quite impressed by all accounts. 
GFD: Do you mean Gaebril Tremalkin? 
AAR: I mean exactly what I say, and say exactly what I mean, as you well know, Mr. Fitzdecker. But yes, it was Tremalkin, wasn't it? But the saints of Shar are the hardest to remember, aren't they[he pauses with a gleam in his eyes, waiting for me to respond, but I kept looking at my book and pen]aren't they[another pause]. Oh you! You get it, don't you?! Enough religious humour, though. That sort of thing isn't funny around here anymore, or so they keep telling me. Did you hear the one about the Priest of Waukeen and the Priest of Amaunator walking down the road, when they happen upon a handsome young fellow? I'd better save that one 
[Reks let out a big sigh, the longest I've ever heard in fact, and continued] So let me give you a tidy summary and supply credit where it is due. 
We had a new team of Whitecloaks, freshly minted from our recruitment centre. Iolus Warburtonwait, have you met the Captain yet? He's quite impressive, very captainy! Perhaps the most captainy, but then, maybe strike that won't you? 
Anyway, Iolus (who was a Team Leader at the time) was leading Bannit Harbough, the famous 'Pilgrim', whom I know you know better than you ought to, but that's not your fault. He keeps no appointment book, and simply talks to whoever darkens his dooror is it 'whomever' darkens his doorno, it's whoever, I'm sure. But yes, Bannit was there. Already quite accomplished, I should say. I've always liked Bannit, and you can tell him as much. More even, if you're of a mind to. 
Then there were the rest. But let's move on 
GFD: Actually, could we 
AAR: [sighs and gesticulates wildly at the inconvenience, then starts naming names and counting off on his fingers as he does] Yes yes. There was Corran Altair, Paladin of Torm, still with us, great guy and all 
that. There was Hruun ofsome damned title for whatever he was; something between a giant and pain in everyone's arse, but he's gone back 'home', whatever that might be for someone his size. Do you know he was over 7' tall? Terribly costly to feed. He also never returned his cloak, which is a loose end that keeps me up at nights. Hmmthen there was Sorashanaoh my goodness, were we wrong to bring her in. Lovely girl, for a Shadar-Kai. Even with Lumina speaking for her, the powers that be wouldn't allow us to keep her on. She avoided being locked up, which is about as good as we could expect, I guess. 
GFD: Hold on, thank you, sir. You mean to tell me that the White Cloaks had a Shadar-Kai in their ranks? How the devil did she even make it to the Castle? 
AAR: Well, she actually fled from Shade, if you can believe it. I didn't, and I may have been right, but we'll never know. I think in the end she turned out to be OK. She did the Deadnettle mission, even fought at Liberty Hill and went 'over the wall' (that's so dramatic sounding, don't you think'over the wall'?) 
Anyway, she's not around any more, and that's sort of a pity, we could use her. But where was I? [he holds up his hand again, and raises another finger and points at it] There was also Drake Sterling. [He puffs out his chest and makes an impressed-looking face] Drake! Sterling! DRAKE! STERLING! There's a man's man, or anyway, he could be if he played his cards right. I'm in peril of jumping ahead a chapter, to where he grabs Belladonna on the Table of the Sun and BODY SLAMS [and he claps his hands together loudly] the villain to the ground, 30' down! Who doesn't LOVE that story?! Ohmy Drake Sterlinghe's at the Castle now on that team. I think Iolus has him marked for leadership, and really, he could run the whole show with those pecs alonebut yes, Drake was on this team. He carried it, really. 
GFD: He must be something. So how did they track down Deadnettle and shut down her operation? 
AAR: You really don't like the foreplay, do you? Such a pitywell, let's get right to getting at it then, yes? 
Well, did I mention that I thought this whole thing was a trap? Because I mean to. You see, I think the Whitecloaks were meant to find Deadnettle and her monstrous cohort. I say that because we never did uncover a second coven or cult at Tesh Valley, and believe me, we looked. No; rather Deadnettle was just causing mischief there, trying to goad us into a fight. We obliged, the rest is history, let's have a drink, shall we? I'll throw another log on the fire! 
GFD: I would love to hear a bit more detail, if you don't mind. 
AAR: You chroniclers, and your chronic need for details! You really should chronicle how tasty this '77 Muloch Merlot is. What a wonderful vintage. But I can see that you're turning your nose up at it, as though there was never a good bottle of wine outside of Waterdeep. I'll keep going, then? 
Yes, well, this group had a real talent for sniffing out intel. Everyone loved Iolus, as he was already a hero of a dozen conflicts. And Bannit could get any good-natured person to say any good-natured thing. He's made a career of it now as you know, which is our loss, I thinkyes, it probably is for sure. 
So this group makes their way to Tesh Valley, fighting hideous monsters along the way; the town was effectively being sieged, though they didn't realize it. The woods were filled with trollspawn and other 
foulness, and they had to fight in, and fight out. They did both in exemplary fashion. I would love to have seen Drake 
GFD: So what did the learn at Tesh Valley? 
AAR: Yes yes. Tesh Valley. Tesh Valley Farm, indeed. But hold on, I think for the benefit of our wonderful audiencereaders?no, audience, I'd like to state something that needs to be emphasized, so no one says "why in the blazes did you send new recruits plus one stodgy old paladin and his confessor to take care of a trollspawn?" and I'll tell you the answer, but right after we've dined. Are you hungry? This will take a full belly 
[Much later, after I've watched Reks look at a full table of food that he pokes at but doesn't eat, we continue the interview] 
GFD: You had something important to tell me right before those meat pies were served up. 
AAR: Of course I did. Of course of course of course. Yes, well, the entire Dale was veritably on fire, you see. Not literally, of course. We've tried that; you can't really burn Cormanthor. But just about every farm was having problems (half of them the direct assaults of the Dark Garden), and the nearby plains of Netheril were starting to fill with troops and terrors. So we had a LOT of military committedrather, every man with a carving knife or better was on a wall somewhere. This was all Melegaunt's plan, as we all know now; he mounted his major offensive, which was offensive to the rest of the Princes of Shade, to our benefit, but that's a tale for another time, unless 
GFD:no, please, let's continue with this tale. 
AAR: Right. Melegaunt and his lackey, Cock'n Cooz'a'mess I think her name wasis? Yes, is, she's at- large, isn't she? I wonder what mischief she's making now. 
GFD: Melegaunt and Loki Mouvranesh? 
AAR: The very same! Melegaunt lead an army in the plains, and Loki hired all these villains to plague our heartlands, so we were fully committed, and fighting on all sides, the insides included! Very devious, no? But that's how it is with the Netherese, or at least these Netherese. The Sorashana girl really seemed nicebut yes, we were engaged, and sent recruits into a terrible trap! [BANG! He claps his hands together for emphasis, and after a long pause continues] 
But, they were clever, this lot, and I've said as much. I'll say it again; they were right clever. Do you know they talked to some old shoe maker, or baker, or caretaker, I can't remember, and this old codger had a chest that some wizard had hid there a THOUSAND years earlier! Astonishing, no? And in this chest was a pair of maps. I have them here somewhere, but you really don't need them. 
One was a map to Gorimdun mine, of Tethyamar-vintage, you see? The other was a map of Netheril before it was Netheril; a dreadful map of a desert if you can believe it, with funny names and a road across it, something to do with Zhents. I think I have those mapsI think. 
GFD: Are you sure it was from a thousand years ago? 
AAR: Details, details! No, more like a hundred, I think. Yes, it was more like a hundred, now that I've thought about it. It was a Zhent wizard named Craig Drool, and he had been here digging up all sorts of things, and he found Gorimdun, the clever sod. 
GFD: Was it 'Thagdul'? 
AAR: Who remembers now? I'm sure he's dead, but there's no body. There so often isn't with these wizards, don't you agree? But yes, now that you've insisted, it was Thagdul, and he found Gorimdun, and that's where Deadnettle decided to place her monster-spawning horror. She'd have gotten away with it if Sterling and the boys hadn't found the old codger with the old trunk and the old maps, right in the very town that Deadnettle was bothering. That all sounds like a terrible coincidence now that I've said it out loud to you, but let's keep going, shall we? Yes? 
Yes. Boy, I would love to have seen the look on her troll-spunk-covered-face when the Whitecloaks stormed that old mine and killed everything in it. 
GFD: That's a bit harsh, isn't it? 
AAR: Oh, you are a softy, aren't you, though, not where it counts I earnestly hope? Those trollspawn weren't really real, if you know what I mean. Well, they were, but I think those spawn things are more like fishes, or maybe bees at best, in their sense of self. They don't 'feel' things like you or me. So when they got burned to a crisp, I think no one was really harmed, really. Is that what you meant? 
GFD: Not really. Your insinuations about Deadnettle are 
AAR: Ha, a bit of fun is all! I'm sure she swallowed every drop. But anyway, I don't want to make a smaller deal of it than I should; the team had to fight their way to the farm, fight their way out, follow a thousand-year-old map to an even older dwarven mine, explore the mine (it's quite big, as I'm sure you've heard), then fight a small army of trollspawn and the thing that made them, and the Madame of the House herself. 
But, the Madame got away, as you should know by now. So it wasn't a full dance card for our heroes, no it was not. It's a shame, really. Things might have gone differently for our lovely Shadar-Kai, maybe. Now that I've had time to think out loud about it, I wonder if those zealots thought she was in on it? I'll have to ask them, but I think I won't actually, now that I've had time to think out loud about it. 
The thing was, we didn't find Deadnettle's coven there, as we expected we would. Just this trap. So we expected she was leading a coven somewhere, and had someone [he coughs and stifles the name 'Dretch'] simply picked up a map, he could have probably picked between three, but now I'm jumping ahead, and shorting my team on their lack of cartographical prowess 
But yes, job done! Mostlyone farm liberated, a dozen to go, that sort of thing. 
There's the bit about Iolus, his mother, his farm and his dragon, but that, I'll insist we go over another time, with a nice bottle of wine.
