---
Provenance: OCR transcription of "dnd notes 23.pdf" (7 pages, typed)
Source: DND Scanned Notes / OneDrive DND Scans
Campaign: Loudwater-Kethoth (Wastrel arc) — DM mechanics/OOC
Date processed: 2026-04-03
Utility: A (unique — no counterpart in archive; DM introductory email explaining Wastrel campaign email-play mechanics, rules, XP policy)
Archive counterparts: None found
OCR notes: Minor artifacts corrected. Some line-break artifacts from scan margins preserved.
---

A bit of mechanics before we get going. If you’ re playing, 1’ }1 need your. ~
character sheet with biography/background emailed to me whenever. you want
to join in on the adventure.

Robertson, you. can download the entire 3.5 PHB. from the WotC
web-site. . Anything else, I'm sure Blacky would be more than willing to
look up for you in his books and send it to you by email.

How this is going to work:

Basically, it’ ll be a lot of 1-on-i over email taking place mostly in the
background of other table-top adventures for the Wastrel crew. If this
does not fit within the timeframe and geography of those tabletop games,
then you can consider this to be an alternate-universe sort of adventure
(if the PC dies at the table he may not necessarily die here. )

There's a little combat involved, here and there, but | expect to play that
out at the table. Mostly its finding stuff out, role-playing, politicking,
diplomaticking and the like. What combat has to take place over email will
be dealt with somehow at the time.

i'm sending the first part of the prologue today to get things going (I’ve
been waiting for Scun, but | don’t want to wait another 3 weeks for
Robertson.) don;t take that as a slight. 1 know how busy you are. Ii
just write you in when you're ready to go. | think it will be best to
role-play the introductions and-see how you get aboard the ship, rather
than just assume you're there all along.

I've rushed a bit through the narrative below, cutting out quite a bit out
of it, just to get to the good stuff. Its like getting rid of the vegetables
inorder to get at the meat.

A few last things:

1. I'Il be cutting and pasting the narrative from Word onto the emai|
text. If anyone would prefer the Word documents, for whatver reason, I

 


can send them to you, but make sure you've got your spel|checker turned

off, since Microsoft, for. some reason, does not recognise words like
“Thayvian” and “Drow” and “Illithid’. Proper. handouts will be in Word
format and attached so they may be printed out and added to the Player's
File Cabinet of Holding +1.

2. Secrecy and sneakiness is a big part of this, so feel free to cut out
some people from any responses. and messages that you see fit. However,
please remember to keep the ol’DM in the loop in these cases. lf a tree
falls in the forest, but. there was no DM around, did it kill Robertson's
character?

3. | partially support Player vs Player action in this adventure, so long

as it is within reason. 1 won't allow gratuitous murder. But what's a
back for, if not for stabbin’, | ask? I’ mnot encouraging dissension here,
mind, but just allowing a bit more freedom than would normal ly be allowed
at the table to keep the lack of dice-rolling a bit spicier.

4, XP. and treasure will be doled out as appropriate, and 1’ 1] let each
table-top DM decide whether or not it can be counted for those characters
at the table. Just keep a separate tally. Also, since what | am-laying |
claim to is the down-time between table-top adentures, you can feel free
to use me as your DM for item creation, spell research, mercantile deal ings,
etc that you would normally do during this time.

5. The end of each email such as the one below is the cue for PC action
and suggestions. 1 intend to move the narrative forward every. Monday,
regardless of who has contributed or participated. If. you did not
participate, then your character didn’ t do anything of note to further this
plot. One week may not be enough time, given how busy everyone is, but
otherwise, stagnation becomes the name of the game. You can always jump
back in later, if you miss the cue, but one week should, | thin, be enough
time to think about what you want to do and [et me know about it. . Of course,
the more the better.

4. Let me know if any fonts fail you. 1’ Il change them if they don’ t work

 


right.

The Guardians of the Watcher
The Prologue (Part One)

Commanded by its small but able crew, The Wastrel broke through to the
Nagaflow River on the eastern end of the Lake of Steam.

#1 his is the beginning, - muttered Aldous as the setting sun shone its last
rays over southern Sespech. The Wastrel silently advanced its first few
miles north up the river: the first oceaner to break through to the inner
seas. # t will take time, but history will continue to be made right
here. The winds of trade blow violently these days, and it will be on this
very spot that the storm will break. « nbsp: With that, he turned his back
and retired to his quarters. a

Zeke and Salazar kept busy examining their course up the unknown river,
but most of the ship #i members shared their drink and tobacco .on deck,
watching the new scenery rol] lazily by.

A few days passed, and the brown waters of the Nagaflow finally gave way
to the green deep waters of the Nagawater lake. Free of the confines of
river travel, The Wastrel unfurled its sails, and continued its journey
north at full speed.

At the midpoint of the second day of travel on the lake, the spires and
towers of the city of Ormpetarr the Great, capital of the Barony of Sespech
hove into view. The Captain ordered full stop to the mighty ship, and
signaled his intentions to dock to the pilot house near the harbour.

Within the hour, a boat made the approach to the ship. A simple rowboat,
powered by four men, two on either side, carried two passengers towards


~The Wastrel. . Their progress was slow and ponderous, and Zeke could be seen ~
to become more and more frustrated with the passage of time. Eventually,
the boat. came alongside... The two passengers stood and. looked. up
expectantly as Salazar lowered the rope ladder for the pilot.

#4 ermission to.come aboard, sir! «hollered one of the men, who was dressed
in-oil greased knee-length trousers, a dirty shirt, leather vest, anda
battered fisherman #i cap. Zeke poked his head over the railing, and looked
the pilot up and-down, before issuing a muttered 3 ar, + and disappearing
once again to the card game he had begun with Cedric.

‘The middle-aged pilot grasped'the rope ladder and was about to climb aboard,
“when the second man, gave a quick cough of protest. This second man was .
clearly no sailor. Older than the ancient pilot by ten or fifteen years,
the man was dressed neck to toe in the black: robes of aclerk, witha smal |
red skullcap atop his head. The pi lot moved aside, and the clerk made his
clumsy and awkward ascent up the rope ladder.

Nearly falling off the railing when he reached. the summit, the clerk
composed himself majestically and stood to his full height once both feet
were firmly planted on the deck... He slowly, and grimly, gave everyone
present an appraising glance, and, seemingly. satisfied with what he had
seen, broke out into an enormous grin.

fi ood day to you all! « he exclaimed to the crew of The Wastrel, with arms
extended out to either side. i y name is Vikras Nasser, Minister of
Commerce, Fisheries and Sails to the Lord Baron of Sespech. |. welcome you
all to-our small and most humble country. News of the accomplishments. of
the people of Yhep has reached our ears, and I am here to formally welcome
the very first ship to have made it across the canal. To think! This very
vesse! | stand upon has sailed The Shinning Sea, The Trackless Sea, The
Sea of Swords even! And now it is here, floating proudly on the Nagawater,

our own isolated |ittle pond in this enormous world. It is a great occasion,
and an even greater honour! -

Here, Minister Nasser paused, hands clasped beneath his chin, and once again

 


“took in the sight of the Wastrel and its crew.

4 ow, if you will permit, we have. a small ceremony planned on the
quay. Nothing to be alarmed about, | assure you. Some musicians, a smal|
crowd, some quick words to mark the occasion, and then a modest banquet
in the Customs House, where you all, of course, shall be the Baron # guests
of honour. =

#4 o doubt, « whispered Aldous to Brenan and Kethoth, taking heed .the
bureaucrat would not hear. Kk espech may not control this entire lake, but
it most definitely controls the only exit into the Vilhon just north of
here. Every ship will pay Blackmantle his gold when crossing to and from
the Lake of Steam, and every one of those same ships will pay this Sespech
Baron too, when crossing to and from the Inner Sea. Blackmantle will fall,
| assure you. . Before the year is out the Zhent or Calishite or Amnian or
Thayvian or even the blasted Luiren banner wil fly down there... But, up
here? Sespech is strong and organized + and ancient. In fact, { would
almost bet the Sespech flag may fly over BI ackmant|e before any of the others
get acchance. Yes, there is indeed much to celebrate in Sespech tonight,
gentlemen. - ee

At this, the ship glided into motion again, as the pilot took command of
the helm, and Zeke and Salazar made ready.

Once the ship moved closer to shore, the full city. came into _
view. Ormpetarr was nondescript in its architecture or size, when compared
to the great cities of the Sword Coast. Composed of mostly wooden two and
three story buildings, the sprawling walled metropolis crowded around a
small harbour.

It did, however, have several remarkable features.

First, crews of men could be seen at work on either side of the city erecting
a new wall. Being built about two miles to either side of the existing
walls, it seemed clear that the Baron of Sespech had been anticipating the
eventual growth of his city, which would undoubtedly follow the completion

 

 

 


of the canal. . The undertaking seemed almost complete, which betrayed the
Baron #1 knowledge of the Blackmantle works.

Second, many of the crew wondered what was wrong with the cityscape. There
was something missing which they could not place their finger on. It was
the Rashemi Witch who put the issue at rest: there was no Thayvian
Enclave. This has been perhaps the first city visited by the crew ina
long time, which did not house a building flying the Thayvian standard. The
sense of relief among some of the crew was shortlived, when spotted in the
harbour, were five of the distinctive yellow-sailed ships of Thay. When
confronted by a bold curse from Mae, Minister Nasser took the opportunity
to explain:

#2 ear not, my dear lady. The Arcane Arts are not tolerated within
Sespech. You may know little of our history and our. ways, but surely you
must have heard of the Rotting Wars of old? Foul magics were unleashed
upon. our people by the dogs of Chondath. We have been battling their
plagues ever since. No, lady, magic is not tolerated. The use of the
arcane carries with it the penalty of public torture and execution. Those
Red Wizards are hunting in the wrong woods. Still - their presence is
tolerated in a purely commercial capacity, ‘you must understand.  Ormpetarr
shall be the equal of Waterdeep, Calimport, Selgaunt and Athkatla before
long! Nay! Greater than all combined! We cannot let our provincial
prejudices stand in the way of progress and commerce, now, can we?-

The third remarkable feature to be instantly spotted in the city were the
other ships in the harbour. Aside from the Thayvian ships, two enormous
black-sailed Zhent ‘galleys shared a dock. The flag of. Zhentil Keep
fluttered unrepentantly from the tops of their masts. Ships like these
had not been seen on the-Inner Sea for almost a decade now, and their return
did not seem to bode well. . Minister Nasser had little to say on the matter,
as all remembered when galleys such as these plied the Inner Sea in search
of human cargo to be sold in the Thayvian and Mulhorandi markets. . While
Minister Nasser had remarked that he had been assured that the galleys were
not being used for slavery, but rather as exploratory vessels seeking to
cross the canal into the Lake of Steam, he would still be glad when the


ships had long since. left.

The last, and probably most remarkable feature in the city was also a
ship. Docked opposite the Zhent galleys, was the magnificent sight of a
Halruaan skyship. Few in the Realms had ever seen one, believing them to
be nothing but a legend. Yet here was one, docked in one of the backwater
cities of the continent. Gleaming white, as if made of ivory, providing
a stark contrast to its black neighbours.

The Wastrel made its way into the harbour, and was brought to the pier
alongside the Halruaan ship. Down the pier, on the quay, the crew could
~ see the sight of the impending celebration.

A low stone bui I ding stood at the quay at the foot of the pier, which seemed,
from the large painted metal coat of arms that stood above the doorway,
undoubtedly the customs house. “In front had been erected a grandstand,
where, by the looks of it, a rather large number. of dignitaries, merchants
and lordlings were beginning to take their seats. Beyond the grandstand,
and to either side, large crowds of people gathered around, craning their
necks to get a better view of the arriving ship. As the ship was brought
to, the ropes fastened, and the gantry lowered, a band of musicians struck
up what seemed like a military march. Dozens of soldiers took up their
_ posts at attention near the grandstand, while battered looking watchmen
tried to keep the crowd of commoners under control.

Rell, then, » said Minister Nasser, shall we make ourselves, « and gave
the Wastrel #§ crew one last appraising glance, # presentable? -

 

 


