Tyriol poked the bags under his eyes. He felt coarse and sickly, like the helpless runt of the litter, which he supposed he sort of was considering the position he held amongst his companions. He coughed into the crook of his elbow and drew himself tighter into the folds of his still-damp cloak, clicking his tongue against the dryness of his throat and sinuses with equal parts frustration and despair.
 
This place was not for him, he concluded. The Shadowfell. Darkness clung deeper to the corners of the walls, everything seemed hazy and out of focus the longer he tried to stare. The cold seemed to bite at his very soul, filling the air in an eerie fashion considering the weather outside. He rubbed his face, returning his fingers a second time to prod at the rough flesh beneath his bad eye. Despite the dwarf's healing prowess, which Tyriol was exceptionally grateful for, his flesh was still marred slightly by the lick of that black dragon's tongue.
 
Hot rage, the rage only a son can feel when his mother is scorned, flared through Tyriols weary frame. At nearly the cost of his own life, he had beaten that bastard lizard into submission under a rain of arrows. It still wasn't enough. The half-elf would find it one day and mount its head upon the wall of his mother's home, and that was not one of his usually empty promises.
 
As his gloved hand left his pale face, Tyriol realised that it didn't particularly bother him anymore anyways. His youthful good-looks did nothing for him in this place, nor amongst his companions. There were no maidens of Loudwater here, sashes tied about their comely hips, ready and willing to be chased through the meadows and trees. He had not seen such girls in a long time.
 
His eyes flickered impulsively to the sorceress leaning against the far wall. A gothic-looking woman to be certain, her sharp eyes focused on the strange piece of pottery in her hands. Considering what they had been through already - he passed a cautious glance at the large set of doors at the end of the hall they were camped in - Tyriol was certain it was booby-trapped in some way. As though she read his thoughts, Radha's eyes flickered up and met his own for a heartbeat. Tyriol was certain he saw nothing but disdain in the black depths of her pupils.
 
Well enough, he supposed as he turned his stare aside. She was a disquieting one despite her prettiness, and the close company she kept with the tiefling only added to her undesirableness.
 
Tyriol stared at the door once again, and the figures next to it. Kethoth, gesturing dramatically and stroking his chin in equal measure, was standing beside Volund before the menacing construction. The two of them had been trying to work out a means to open it for the last...however many hours they had been in here.
 
Hours. The word buried itself into Tyriol's gut like a hot ball of lead, sending waves of anxiety and nausea throughout his body.
 
Seventy-two hours. Oh gods, how long had it been already? Why were they just sitting around? Time was running out.
 
He rubbed his eyes and settled his tired mind. Oh yes. They needed rest. This was their break. They were taking a break. Be calm, ranger. Still the waters of your mind. Tyriol closed his eyes and endeavoured to dream of the girls with sashes tied about their waists.
 
Tyriol found himself alone amongst the trees. Fog draped his surroundings like a funeral shroud.
 
Southwood? The trees were familiar, but everything was quiet, dead quiet. It felt... wrong. Tyriol rose to his feet, one trembling hand resting against the tree near which he had been laying. Images of pretty girls that his mother disproved of had vanished, leaving him alone and disturbed.
 
He looked to his left, then looked to his right.
 
Cautiously, he spoke up.
 
\"Hello?\"
 
The fog seemed to devour the noise, leaving not even an echo in the nearly tree-forsaken swath of dirt he inhabited.
 
As if to answer him, a sound reached his ears. A steady tread, boots crunching on dirt and branches. One step, two steps, three steps, four. Deep within the swirling fog, a silhouette took shape. Faint at first, Tyriol had to squint to see it, but it gradually grew more distinct. Fear slowly sunk its claws into his mind. An unwanted companion, albiet one Tyriol was intimiately familiar with.
 
\"Speak your name and your intent or... I'll plant a tree between your eyes.\" Tyriol threatened, struggling to keep his voice from cracking.
 
The figure continued its approach, gradually growing more and more distint. The ranger shrugged his greatbow off his shoulder and planted it in the earth, assuming his stance, hand hovering, shaking, over the empty quiver at his hip.
 
\"This is your last warning!\"
 
The figure stepped into view, sending tendrils of fog swirling about like the frenzied limbs of some deep sea creature. It was a man, tall as Tyriol and garbed in a cloak as black as pitch. The edges of the garment, completely obscuring the rest of his body, seemed to drift and float, twisting through the air as though they possessed a mind of their own. Shadows seemed to radiate from the figure, creeping out from under the cloak like grasping hands.
 
Tyriol didn't pause. He had been through too much up until this point - dragons, vampires, hordes of undead and worse - he knew hesitation meant death. The arrow he launched from his bow sliced a path through the air, straight for the cloaked stranger's head. Instead of avoiding it the projectile, however, the figure merely opened his cloak and stepped into it. The arrow vanished into the blackness that inhabited the garment, which the figure promptly threw closed after it.
 
Of course, Tyriol thought bitterly.
 
He backpedalled as the figure continued its approach, matching step for step until the half-elf felt his back press against the tree behind him. His heart was pounding. He felt the familiar sensation of bile rising in his throat, terror growing at the back of his mind. Fear gripped his soul.
 
Tyriol found his hand wandering towards the quiver not at his right hip, but at his left. The Black Quiver. Tremalkin's relic. The black, yawning mouth stared up at him, and he had found himself staring into it often, both terrified and... excited? The powers it possessed, if the legends were true, were overwhelming. The cost, however, had always stayed Tyriol's hand up until now. The madness that gripped the Black Saint could take hold of him just as easily, probably easier.
 
No. No time for hesitation. He plunged his hand into its depths, feeling nothing but cold air, yet thick and viscous. It chilled his hand straight to the bone. He twisted his fingers, grasping for the familiar feel of fletching, a straight shaft, a sharp arrowhead, anything. The quiver was empty.
And then he felt a hand take his own, soft and smooth. A woman's hand. Slender fingers pried his own apart, and he felt lips press against the palm of his hand. Tyriol tried to pull his arm away, but a voice flooded his mind, low and mocking - a woman's tone.
 
\"So quick to recoil from the touch of the divine, young half-elf?\"
 
The lips pulled away slowly, and in their place an arrow appeared. Tyriol wrapped his fist around it, pulling his hand from the quiver,raising it to strike as though it were a blade in his hand.
 
Lightning fast, the shadowy figure was upon, his right hand on Tyriol's throat and the left grasping the ranger's own left wrist.
 
Within the folds of the black hood, Tyriol saw his own face reflected back at him. Twisted, pale as a ghost, with black eyes that seemed to empty into the Abyss itself. Tyriol screamed. He struggled against his doppleganger's grip, eyes unable to leave the horrible face that hovered an inch away from his own, the face that was his own.
 
The doppleganger merely held him against the tree, squeezing no tighter than necessary, enduring the hail of blows that Tyriol frantically rained on him with his right fist. Eventually, the frenzied glaze rolled off the half-elf's eyes, and he saw nothing but cool understanding on his captor's face.
 
He opened his mouth, and spoke in a voice that seemed to come from all sides.
 
\"Release it.\"
 
Tyriol had to think for several seconds before it occurred to him what the man was saying. He dragged his eyes off the face before him and saw what the man was speaking of. A blackened hand was wrapped around his own, in which was gripped an arrow seemingly composed of nothing more than solid shadow. From the arrow's shaft an inky stain slowly spilled, creeping over the skin of Tyriol's fingers, turning his flesh the same dark shade as that of his doppleganger's.
 
He released the arrow, horror writ across his face. It hit the ground without a sound and dissolved in a cloud of shadow. The duplicate released him at that moment, but remained close, his breath washing over Tyriol's face as he spoke.
 
\"Do not let that thing have you,\" he said, raising his tainted arm and splaying his fingers in the air.
 
\"I don't understand.\" Tyriol whispered, eyes wide and unblinking.
 
\"You haven't much time. Get out. Get out while you can.\"
 
\"Where -\"
 
\"GET OUT!\" The gloaming figure bellowed as he erupted into shadows, hands wrapped tightly around the ranger's collar, dragging him deep into the darkness until the half-elf eyes could see nothing but blackness.
 
He spasmed, and found himself prone in his sleeping roll once more. Quickly he sat up, glanced down the hall and saw the reassuring forms of his travelling companions. After several deep breaths, Tyriol wiped the sweat off his brow and rested his head on the ground once again. He sighed and placed his hands against his face.
 
\"Stop it. Just stop it. You idiot.\"
 
He closed his eyes once more and tried to relax.
 
\"...bad dreams?\" A voice inquired above him. Tyriol jumped somewhat, and looked upwards at the man who had spoken. Volund's stoic face stared back down at him.
 
\"Somewhat, yes. How long has it been?\"
 
\"Since you settled in?\" The swordmage tapped his finger several times on pommel of the sword. \"Nearly five hours by my count.\"
 
Tyriol lowered his gaze and nodded his thanks.
 
The quiver weighed heavily on his hip, he noticed. Moreso than usual. 
 
Five more hours. Time was running out. Trapped in the Shadowfell... gods. A fate worse than death.
 
Tyriol had to get out of here, horns be damned.
