Grandus is a dwarf that spent nearly twenty years  adventuring in various spots throughout the Gray Vale.  He also spent  twenty years stationed at Falcon's Roost.  He has set up a home in  Loudwater and living off of the spoils of his adventuring.  Grandus is  known for arguing with Mayor Moonfire, Maeghuen Grimbold, the late  Captain Harrowleaf and Curuvar, all in public and all over how “things  should be done” in Loudwater.  With Captain Grimbold incapacitated,  Curuvar distracted by other matters, and Ambassador Hyperia clearly in  no position to lead, Grandus has fallen into an impromptu leader in the  face of the 'Iron Jackal” presence in the area.   Although brash and  quick to encourage an attack against the Iron Jackals, Grandus is not  foolish.  He's aware of the fact that should he prove to be too much of a  problem, it will be his house that is burnt to the ground with his  corpse staked out front as a message to the rest of the residents of  Loudwater.

Grandus is aggressive and quick to anger.  When  speaking, he expects everyone within earshot to listen and considers  having to repeat himself as a sign of disrespect.

Grandus has  established a working relationship of sorts with the individual known as  Cirrato and the group of adventurers known as The Ghosts.  It turns out  it has been profitable for both parties.

The adventurers learned  on the 13th of Tarsakh from Sergeant Riirin Taims that Grandus  Hammerfel has been building a castle to the southwest of Loudwater, and  would most likely be making a bid for Lordship in the Gray Vale upon the  completion of the castle.

On the 14th of Tarsakh, late in the  day, Grandus was convinced to ride north to Arcos Branikar's farm in an  attempt to negotiate with the man and provide assistance with his  militia in the defense of Loudwater.  Grandus Hammerfel rode out with  five wardens and two dwarven retainers and has not been heard of since  then.

Grandus returned on the 16th of Tarsakh, mid-morning.  He  was in the company of Arcos Branikar and over fifty of Branikar's  militia.  Grandus, Arcos Branikar and Branikar's men played a key role  in defending the western gate of Loudwater as well as liberating the  rest of Loudwater from the Iron Jackals.

==Death==
Grandus Hammerfel was  murdered by the tiefling known as Lavidius on the 17th of Tarsakh.   Tucked inside Grandus' tunic in a hidden pocket was the Idiot card from the Deck of Many Things.  That card is currently in the possession of Adminster Crane.
