== Beyond Blackmantle ==

Commanded by its small but able crew, the Wastrel broke through to the Nagaflow River on the eastern end of the Lake of Steam.

\"This is the beginning,\" muttered Aldous as the setting sun shone its last rays over southern Sespech. The Wastrel silently advanced its first few miles north up the river: the first oceaner to break through to the inner seas. \"It will take time, but history will continue to be made right here. The winds of trade blow violently these days, and it will be on this very spot that the storm will break.\" With that, he turned his back and retired to his quarters.

Zeke and Salazar kept busy examining their course up the unknown river, but most of the ship's members shared their drink and tobacco on deck, watching the new scenery roll lazily by.

A few days passed, and the brown waters of the Nagaflow finally gave way to the green deep waters of the Nagawater lake. Free of the confines of river travel, the Wastrel unfurled its sails, and continued its journey north at full speed.

During the journey, Kethoth is working constantly above decks, surveying the passage and recording everything on a large map. He has depths taken at least once/hour, and at some points requests a slower pace, in order to record, or draw, a certain feature or another.

\"We are the first real ocean-going vessel to traverse these waters, and as such, i suspect that we are among a very small crowd of competent surveyors and cartographers to travel likewise. I think it is only fit that we have our journey adequately recorder for posterity and such. And who knows...perhaps these charts will come in handy later in our journeys,\" he admonishes...

== The Barony of Sespech ==

At the midpoint of the second day of travel on the lake, the spires and towers of the city of Ormpetarr the Great, capital of the Barony of Sespech hove into view. The Captain ordered full stop to the mighty ship, and signaled his intentions to dock to the pilot house near the harbour.

\"I am surprised we are not met by some sort of vessel-of-taxation, gentlemen. Surely, they have heard here what is going on down river! It will not be long.\"

Within the hour, a boat made the approach to the ship. A simple rowboat, powered by four men, two on either side, carried two passengers towards the Wastrel.

\"Pardon me, gentlemen. I shall return in a moment.\" Kethoth heads below, and there are some muffled 'wuja wuja's' heard. He then comes back above decks.

When Kethoth returns, he is wearing a new face. Don't worry; it isn't a fleshy face that he cut from some undeserving victim. Rather, he has cast change self upon himself, which he has been doing of late. This spell gives him roughly the appearance of a man, though those of you that know him well, and have keen eyes, can see minor mistakes in his magical guise, and know him for the scaly devilkind he is.

He usually goes around as a regular-looking mulhorandi, and still introduces himself as 'Kethoth', with the usual story of being a purveyor of antiquities. He displays a prominent, square nose and sharp chin, dark eyes and hair in this guise.'

This spell lasts for 16 hours these days.

== Permission to Come Aboard ==

Their progress was slow and ponderous, and Zeke could be seen to become more and more frustrated with the passage of time. Eventually, the boat came alongside. The two passengers stood and looked up expectantly as Salazar lowered the rope ladder for the pilot.

\"Permission to come aboard, sir!\" hollered one of the men, who was dressed in oil greased knee-length trousers, a dirty shirt, leather vest, and a battered fisherman's cap. Zeke poked his head over the railing, and looked the pilot up and down, before issuing a muttered \"Yar,\" and disappearing once again to the card game he had begun with Cedric.

The middle-aged pilot grasped the rope ladder and was about to climb aboard, when the second man, gave a quick cough of protest. This second man was clearly no sailor. Older than the ancient pilot by ten or fifteen years, the man was dressed neck to toe in the black robes of a clerk, with a small red skullcap atop his head. The pilot moved aside, and the clerk made his clumsy and awkward ascent up the rope ladder.

Nearly falling off the railing when he reached the summit, the clerk composed himself majestically and stood to his full height once both feet were firmly planted on the deck. He slowly, and grimly, gave everyone present an appraising glance, and, seemingly satisfied with what he had seen, broke out into an enormous grin.

\"Good day to you all!\" he exclaimed to the crew of the Wastrel, with arms extended out to either side. \"My name is Vikras Nasser, Minister of Commerce, Fisheries and Sails to the Lord Baron of Sespech. I welcome you all to our small and most humble country. News of the accomplishments of the people of Yhep has reached our ears, and I am here to formally welcome the very first ship to have made it across the canal. To think! This very vessel I stand upon has sailed The Shinning Sea, The Trackless Sea, The Sea of Swords even! And now it is here, floating proudly on the Nagawater, our own isolated little pond in this enormous world. It is a great occasion, and an even greater honour!\"

Here, Minister Nasser paused, hands clasped beneath his chin, and once again took in the sight of the Wastrel and its crew.

\"Now, if you will permit, we have a small ceremony planned on the quay. Nothing to be alarmed about, I assure you. Some musicians, a small crowd, some quick words to mark the occasion, and then a modest banquet in the Customs House, where you all, of course, shall be the Baron's guests of honour.\"

== Border Schemes ==

\"No doubt,\" whispered Aldous to Brenan and Kethoth, taking heed the bureaucrat would not hear. \"Sespech may not control this entire lake, but it most definitely controls the only exit into the Vilhon just north of here. Every ship will pay Blackmantle his gold when crossing to and from the Lake of Steam, and every one of those same ships will pay this Sespech Baron too, when crossing to and from the Inner Sea. Blackmantle will fall, I assure you. Before the year is out the Zhent or Calishite or Amnian or Thayvian or even the blasted Luiren banner will fly down there. But, up here? Sespech is strong and organized... and ancient. In fact, I would almost bet the Sespech flag may fly over Blackmantle before any of the others get a chance. Yes, there is indeed much to celebrate in Sespech tonight, gentlemen.\"

\"I think you may be right, cleric,\" noted Kethoth, gripping the rails of the ship. \"This 'Blackmantle' is but a retired adventurer, from what i have been told, and not a competent administrator. There are many cities nearby which have stood for a mentionable amount of time, and the filthy 'Port of Blackmantle' will be but a footnote to one of these places, I am sure.\"

\"However, i am not so sure of the global importance of such a place. Routes of trade come and go. The greatest cities in the realms, those that have stood for thousands of years, are destinations, rather than a camp site beside a muddy hole to water your horse. I think Blackmantle has overestimated the value of his little port. But, we shall see!\"

At this, the ship glided into motion again, as the pilot took command of the helm, and Zeke and Salazar made ready.

== Great Ormpetarr ==

Once the ship moved closer to shore, the full city came into view. Ormpetarr was nondescript in its architecture or size, when compared to the great cities of the Sword Coast. Composed of mostly wooden two and three story buildings, the sprawling walled metropolis crowded around a small harbour.

It did, however, have several remarkable features.

First, crews of men could be seen at work on either side of the city erecting a new wall. Being built about two miles to either side of the existing walls, it seemed clear that the Baron of Sespech had been anticipating the eventual growth of his city, which would undoubtedly follow the completion of the canal. The undertaking seemed almost complete, which betrayed the Baron's knowledge of the Blackmantle works.

The sight brought a guffaw to Kethoth's lips. \"Ha! More grandious scheming by short-lived men! The Baron is making Blackmantle's wager, and i'll bet it pays the same; a little in the beginning, and a pittance in years to come. Certainly, it will not pay enough to pay for such a wall. Two-miles berth! That is preposterous! I doubt we will see enough squalor-ridden shacks, such as fill this existing city, to crowd those optimistic walls. Foolish men with office are a cheap currency in this part of the realms, it would seem.\"

== Ships in the Harbour ==

Second, many of the crew wondered what was wrong with the cityscape. There was something missing which they could not place their finger on. It was the Rashemi Witch who put the issue at rest: there was no Thayvian Enclave. This has been perhaps the first city visited by the crew in a long time, which did not house a building flying the Thayvian standard. The sense of relief among some of the crew was shortlived, when spotted in the harbour, were five of the distinctive yellow-sailed ships of Thay. When confronted by a bold curse from Mae, Minister Nasser took the opportunity to explain:

\"Fear not, my dear lady. The Arcane Arts are not tolerated within Sespech. You may know little of our history and our ways, but surely you must have heard of the Rotting Wars of old? Foul magics were unleashed upon our people by the dogs of Chondath. We have been battling their plagues ever since. No, lady, magic is not tolerated. The use of the arcane carries with it the penalty of public torture and execution. Those Red Wizards are hunting in the wrong woods. Still... their presence is tolerated in a purely commercial capacity, you must understand. Ormpetarr shall be the equal of Waterdeep, Calimport, Selgaunt and Athkatla before long! Nay! Greater than all combined! We cannot let our provincial prejudices stand in the way of progress and commerce, now, can we?\"

At this, Kethoth remains silent, though his newly crafted face is an eloquent testament to scorn. However, to the crew, out of earshot of the Sespechians, he whispers, \"I will have to keep a low profile in this city, too, it seems. At least the new friends that Aldous and Brenan have made don't have a bomb-tossing citadel on some arcane-summoned bluff in this city too. Though I can't argue that I have found their services lacking, enough of us have crossed the Red Wizards that it comes as a relief to me, to see them without authority here. Still, we must play ourselves meek; there are several of thier boats about, and I would wager the Captain's gold teeth that there are spies applenty in this town.\"

The third remarkable feature to be instantly spotted in the city were the other ships in the harbour. Aside from the Thayvian ships, two enormous black-sailed Zhent galleys shared a dock. The flag of Zhentil Keep fluttered unrepentantly from the tops of their masts. Ships like these had not been seen on the Inner Sea for almost a decade now, and their return did not seem to bode well. Minister Nasser had little to say on the matter, as all remembered when galleys such as these plied the Inner Sea in search of human cargo to be sold in the Thayvian and Mulhorandi markets. While Minister Nasser had remarked that he had been assured that the galleys were not being used for slavery, but rather as exploratory vessels seeking to cross the canal into the Lake of Steam, he would still be glad when the ships had long since left.

At this sight, Kethoth is heard to remark, \"If those ships aren't cruising for cargoes of flesh, then i am a halfling! This 'Nasser' is blind or simple, or both, if he thinks otherwise.\"

The last, and probably most remarkable feature in the city was also a ship. Docked opposite the Zhent galleys, was the magnificent sight of a Halruaan skyship. Few in the Realms had ever seen one, believing them to be nothing but a legend. Yet here was one, docked in one of the backwater cities of the continent. Gleaming white, as if made of ivory, providing a stark contrast to its black neighbours.

\"Well, that is a rare sight. I wonder if the Halruaans are in port, and would offer a tour of their vessel. Probably not, but I will have to inquire.\"

== A Celebration ==

The Wastrel made its way into the harbour, and was brought to the pier alongside the Halruaan ship. Down the pier, on the quay, the crew could see the sight of the impending celebration.

A low stone building stood at the quay at the foot of the pier, which seemed, from the large painted metal coat of arms that stood above the doorway, undoubtedly the customs house. In front had been erected a grandstand, where, by the looks of it, a rather large number of dignitaries, merchants and lordlings were beginning to take their seats. Beyond the grandstand, and to either side, large crowds of people gathered around, craning their necks to get a better view of the arriving ship. As the ship was brought to, the ropes fastened, and the gantry lowered, a band of musicians struck up what seemed like a military march. Dozens of soldiers took up their posts at attention near the grandstand, while battered looking watchmen tried to keep the crowd of commoners under control.

\"It looks like the low profile that i wished to maintain might not be possible. Curses! Well, at perhaps they will have some entertainments for us to enjoy, as the first transoceanic ship to make their insignificant port. Perhaps there will be a roolet table!\"

\"Well, then,\" said Minister Nasser, \"Shall we make ourselves,\" and gave the Wastrel's crew one last appraising glance, “presentable?”

Kethoth's sneer is unmistakeable.

Kethoth will follow any crewmembers ashore and take in the festivities. At some point, he will want to wander off on his own, arranging to meet the crew back at the ship for supper time.
