Kethoth leaves the main hall to seek out Kohr.

...

\"Korh; I wish I had time for two things; to stay and help you rebuild your ranch, and to feast our victories and mourn our losses together. I haven't time for either just now, however.

\"There is much left unsaid between us, and I fear it must remain so until our next meeting, which I hope is in this world. I depart in the morning for Falcon's Roost, to lend what aid we can to the beleaguered wardens up there.

\"I don't ask anything of you at this point, except to be welcomed back if we return this way. The hospitality of your hall has proven exemplary, even in time of war. I pray that you will maintain your hold in this bit of wilderness; the world has gone dark, but while good men such as you build and defend homes in wilderness such as this, hope grows for our world.

\"I must get ready to depart; we will be leaving very early, and I have many preparations to make. If you would ask anything of me, do so now, sir.\"
about 8 months ago

Steve Hicks \"I find myself thinking more and more about what happened with Cayd, Zeta and how it's all tied to that bastard, Garrus Cal'Botran.\"

Taking a moment to spit on the ground at the mention of the bandit king's name before continuing.

\"I've known Cayd for three years. Worked with him, hunted with him. Trusted him with my family and I knew, I always knew he had a past and I knew it was a past he didn't want to share and a past I didn't care to know about. A man can change...not all men, but some can and I thought he was one.\"

A charred, soaked body was pulled from the waters, his shoulders flexing as he grunted under the weight of it before continuing.

\"I keep thinkin' back to what he said and what you said and...with all the opportunities he had to do what you said he had planned. None of it makes sense. It bothers me. He could have done what you said he had planned a dozen times, a hunnerd times over and not in the middle of a fight like the one we were in. You're good with your words mage. Better with your tongue than I am with my sword and that makes you dangerous and only serves to confirm my opinion of mages. I heard what you said about this place and about my wife and my children before you charged off like a coward into the storm the other night. Now your standin' here all gentle as you please. You twisted my thoughts and after the morrow, I have no desire to look upon you for a moment longer. If you come out of the mountains alive, there will not be any shelter here for you or your companions. Tonight, I will feed you and give you more drink than you could want and I will be grateful for your help. I will also be thankful that I only need to look upon you one more time if you return to collect your fancy white rocks but after that, steer clear of me and mine, mage. You can have all of the damned realms as yours, but after you return and collect your rocks, if I see you in Kohr'Murron again...I'll kill you.\"
about 8 months ago · Report

Kethoth Sepret \"I hope that some time will lessen your anger and elevate your opinion of at least my friends, if not me. You have lost a great deal here; more than I could understand, so I won't try to assuage you from your doubts and mourning.

\"I only ask this; if you must hold onto your judgement of me, so be it. However, do not judge my friends so harshly for their association to me; they are heroes, every one, and if not for them, we would not be having this conversation; we would both be dead, your women taken as slaves, your horses roasted for orc-food, and this place a smoking ruin.

\"Offer your thanks to them, and more hospitality than you would offer me. They deserve it even if I do not.

\"I'll respect your wishes though. This is your castle, and I am your guest, if only for one more night.\"

Kethoth gives a slight bow, and departs, smiling from ear to ear once his head is turned.
