20 Mirtul

After a couple days of rest at the monastery, waiting for Turnigal to complete a pair of alabaster puzzle pieces for us (I shall have to ask him sharply about his knowledge of these things once our business here is concluded) we have made a productive foray into the Tower.  As I write this, the troops are in the taproom partially enjoying their victory, and partially mourning the loss of a friend.  I don’t doubt they are talking a bit more than I would like, but it has been an eventful day, and I will not attempt to keep them from their diversions tonight; it is well earned.

But let me start at breakfast.

It has become our usual course of business to assemble in the morning in the taproom, where I treat the troops to breakfast.  This morning, I finally broached the topic of the Mercykillers, and the encounter betwixt their scout, I, and Baird.  Though I am still enraged at Baird for his actions, I do honestly understand why his slow brain would not have figured out what the mind of Kethoth had put together so quickly; that the Mercykillers had become our bitter foes, and that our paths must needs cross, and blood must be spilled.

I told the troops that I understood, and so on and so on, and suggested that we put that behind us, and agree to a couple of things; firstly, that the Mercykillers are our foes, and secondly, that we will attack first if given the chance.  It is difficult to keep a conversation on course when some of the help is unable to focus on one thing for too long, and others are determined to cast indictments at me, the provider of their gainful employment.  However, it was, ironically, Baird who finally closed the unpleasant discussion with an indignant acquiescence intermingled with a last accusation.  No surprise, really; let me see if I can summarize our discussion for my own amusement;

Kethoth:  Say, my good friends, can we all agree that we must dispatch the villainous foes that have sworn to do the same to us on site, when next we meet?

Lucretius:  Confound you, sorcerer!  You started this!  Snort rumble snort!

Kethoth:  Try to see things my way, my tireless companions.  They have sworn to kill us; can’t we just agree, for the basest sense of self preservation if nothing else, to defend ourselves as best we can?

Pup:  My eggs are cold.

Kethoth:  Perhaps Luc can warm them…

Baird:  All mages are evil, evil ones especially, but we may as well fight.  I say we fight.  I have a sword, let’s fight.  The Mercykillers, I mean…

Problem resolved, though not as I imagined.  One can never assume too very much about the machinations of the minds of adventurers.

Presently, we were off.  We marched our way through the grounds of a Spellgard that seemed markedly changed since last we paraded the grounds.  It was quiet, for starters.  The usual host of ‘seekers’ carrying out their architectural summoning schemes was absent, having been replaced with gore-smeared evidence of violence and horror.  Even the usual sort of demi-villains and hobby-monsters were likewise absent.  Barthas has been to work on this place, and I could feel his rage as something palpable in the air today.  His malice hangs over this ruin, and the carnivalesque feel of the place has altogether vanished under his black will.

We did not tarry long to investigate, though.  Hoisting again our co-opted dining tables from the refectory of the Sceptre Tower, we made a covered approach to the Tower, and made the landing and the doors with little difficulty.  I guess it would do me little good to complain about what we found beyond the opening of the Tower; therein there was a span of debris blocking, if only partially, any expedient entry into the hall.  There’s no use complaining because it was the actions of my troops under my direction that created so much debris in the Tower, and one can’t expect goblins and other cretins to keep house.

The debris would not have barred us in any way, as it was only piled about as high as Ender’s crotch. However, half the monsters in the place were camped thereupon to welcome us to their unkempt home.  Our door-crashers did their best to wade into that mess, but it was slow work for them and our slapdash entry plan lead them to be set upon on all sides by an enemy that outnumbered us four times.

One of our party had little difficulty gaining entry; Aryalyustrinne was in the room as quick as she could crinkle her nose and tap her heels together, and it nearly cost us her life.  She was so terribly manhandled by a loathsome hobgoblin shaman of some variety that it seemed for a moment that she would not escape that tower with her life. She was flung about the room by his magic, and one sinister goblin and then another would take a slice at her as she was hurtled passed.  Finally she landed on the ground in a limp, bloody pile, and our collective heart sank, while our bile grew.

Mattrick was at the doors of the room just as Arya fell, and he brought forth all the might of Kelemvor that is his to master, and we all bled from fewer wounds of a sudden, and Arya was springing to her feet again, and making her way desperately to the door.

At this point, we hatched a plan that the two of us had been incubating the last couple of nights.  I have been spending my nights in the monastery working on a more potent and controlled fire spell.  After washing the minions of the ruins and the Tower with so much fire over the last couple of days, that low, euphonious song in my veins has been growing louder and clearer, and it sang to me the formulae for my new pyromancy.  The new spell is potent, but it emanates from me in all directions, as though I were the centre of a malign inferno.

Our plan was this; Arya would translocate me into the midst of our foes, and I would unleash my flames, and then make an arcane retreat.  The plan worked smashingly, I will say.  I must admit that being translocated by Arya leaves my stomach roiling, as though I am about to vomit, or like I have just committed a terrible and wonderful crime of some beastly variety, and the sensation gave me some little pause before I discharged my flames.  I could hear the rhythmic song of Set in my blood, and though I struggled through the terrible rumbling in my guts, the song got louder and I closed my eyes until blackness and the song were the only things I was aware of.  In that moment of solitary oblivion, with the voice of Set throbbing in the back of my head, I looked down and I could see the footfall of a hob in front of me, and I saw his shadow raise a club over its head to strike me down.  I clenched my teeth and bit my tongue, and with the first taste of blood, I erupted.

What followed was an ejaculation of flame that was more satisfying than any of the other variety I have had.  There was a cacophony of screams as immediate and pleasing as the bright flashes of flame which engulfed nearly every one of the score of villains set against us. My senses returned from oblivion to witness the blazing chaos I had birthed. I was still looking down, and the hobgoblin next to me was screeching a melody, and I could see little bits of fat burning off his meaty legs, and dripping to and sizzling on the debris in the room.  I was on the brink of becoming transfixed by this delight to the senses; the smell of the smoke, the sound of the screams, the very heat itself from a dozen burning enemies nearby; it was all enough to keep me fixed in place, smiling and taking it all in, but I knew the flames wouldn’t last, and I hadn’t managed to engulf all of my foes.

And so, I made an arcane retreat.  This is a spell that I always enjoy; the world seems to slow to a crawl, and the very faces of my enemies seem to blur and contort in a frustrated and delayed response to what must appear to them to be a dazzling burst of speed from this devil.  I took enough time to watch one last sizzling droplet of fat ever so slowly fall to earth, and I smiled as I took off, hobbling off at what seems a normal, if somewhat hurried pace through the many foes I had just ignited, and soon found myself back beyond the line, with my plate-armoured lackeys intractably interposed between myself and my burning and bewildered foes.

After my fiery assault upon door-wardens, the room quickly fell.  Our front line finally managed to form a wedge and fight their way in, and Tyriol and I picked off the charred and routed monsters as they left the fray.  We had once again gained entry into the Sceptre Tower, which countless others were unable to do in years past.

After the dust settled we found ourselves in possession of one of the villainous hobgoblin shaman that had so cruelly handled Arya.  My bloodthirsty companions were at the end of the leash trying to get at him, but I kept them at bay a moment.  The language of this creature was very similar to that of the goblins and other scum I kept as pets during my time as the Bandit Kossur, and I let him bargain for his life.  I demanded to know how many more were upstairs, and what their defense plans entailed.  He claimed that we had just killed half of the remaining defenders, and that Thoran was so sure he could best us if we were able to get up the stairs, that there was no real organized defense beyond the room we had just gained.  I was pleased with this information, but I turned around and made a face that expressed something between hurt and disbelief.

“What did it say, Captain?” asked Tyriol anxiously.

“It says it raped your mother and plans to do the same to your young behind if we let him up.”

Thwump!  An arrow was in the chest of the thing faster than you can say “born yesterday”, and the sucking noises coming from the fatal wound in the things chest, combined with the smell of a dozen moldering bodies was like so many singing birds in a fragrant dawn.

We gathered ourselves and headed up to the next level, whereupon we found the Treasury.

The alabaster puzzle-key which Turnigal fashioned for us worked just fine, and was an amusing diversion for our battle-hardened group.  Inside, a number of chests were ineffectively guarded by Netherese illusions that make me, for the third time since I started plundering these ruins, think less of the erstwhile Masters of Faerûn.  With little delay we managed to sack the room, and were richly rewarded.  There were many rich treasures and so much coin that we still have yet to count it, but a couple items merit mention.

The first thing to be brought forth from the main treasure cask was the very Sceptre that sits on the desk in front of me now.  The sticky fingers of our resident thief produced this item first, and I was transfixed upon it such that he might have taken any number of things that he could hide anywhere on or in his person.  Maybe that’s why he brought it out first.  This is a Sceptre of Winter, and I had heard a little bit about them in my years at the Academy.  To be quite honest with myself, the thing is a bit uncomfortable; it is always cold to touch, even when I hold it over a flame for a bit.  However, it is not the cold that bothers me; many assume that because of my infernal background and pyromantic proclivities that I am vulnerable to the cold, but the truth is to the contrary.  Years of living in the cold foothills of the Greypeak Mountains have hardened me, and I find the dead of winter less discomforting than Tyriol’s whistling or Ender’s company in general.  No, it is the wild power of the thing that frightens.  A century ago, an item like this might make the hair on the back of your arm stand up when you used one of the spells contained within.  Now, with the dweomer such as it is in this post Spell Plague world, the Sceptre uses me as a conduit, rather than the other way around, and although it makes all of my spells more potent, I can’t help but feel that I possess it half the time, and contrawise the other half.

The treasury produced a toy or two for all of our number, and besides the Sceptre, the only other thing worth mentioning is a ring that I assigned to Arya; this is a Purple Dragon Commander’s Ring, and it protects the wearer from falls of any distance, and likewise provides a very slight passive defense against all other harms.  I am glad this thing is upon her delicate finger; I have taken many opportunities since her possession of the thing to say “I must investigate this peerless bauble once more” before taking her by the hand and bringing her bejeweled flesh within inches of my eyes for an ‘investigation’ of the thing.  Most of these investigations are carried out by way of inhaling her scent and watching her shudder slightly with the fall of my breath on her hand.

There is one more treasure which I hold as dear as any sceptre or ring which we acquired that day, and this one came running right up to me.  As we were exiting the treasury and making ready to mount the stairs and confront our next batch of foes, the sounds of screaming approached from the steps to the basement, and of a sudden one bloodied and naked Radha Leveaux came flying into our midst, a half dozen of Barthas’ constructs snapping at her bare shanks. We dispatched those with little effort, and took the frightened girl into our care.

Radha is a lovely morsel, I should say first, because that was the first thing I thought.  She was wearing only a tattered and blood-soaked shift and a red scarf around her neck.  Her most intimate bits were exposed when we first took her in, but I noticed the way her thick brown hair was matted against her forehead and shoulders with her blood and sweat acting like some sort of aphrodisiacal glue.  The fact that she was pursued by some of Barthas’ pets, and the fact that of all her flesh, only her neck was hidden to us, told me that the real beauty of this plum was not her mouth-watering woman-flesh, but the link she represented to our undead adversary.

The other thing worth mentioning about Radha that I noticed from the start was the symbol of the Blades of Korombos tattooed on her shoulder.  This was one of the missing adventurers that we have been discovering the corpses of piece by piece since we started delving into the warrens of Barthas.

Radha came to me first, and I think some of the others resented this.  Certainly, if you were to line up myself with my lackeys, I would probably stand right between Luc and Ender if we were arrayed by looks.  However, Radha ran to me, and I covered and comforted her, and promised her safety and freedom from that which hunts her.  I have kept this promise so far, and intend to do so until the end.

Radha’s story is interesting, and it intersects our just a little before our meeting outside the treasury.  Radha is, or indeed was, a member of the Blades of Korombos. She reports to me that she is the last of the lot, and that the fate of the rest of them was less kind than that of the two succulent brunettes that we found a few days ago in the basement. Her last few companions were stripped of their flesh in some fascinating and terrible ceremony of Barthas’ own design; Radha described the ceremony to those of us that would hear such a gruesome tale; Tyriol and Arya turned away almost immediately, and even the blood-thirsty hamstringing halfling showed some revolt at the half-way point in this story.  To sum it up, Barthas was able to animate the flesh of his victims which actually crawled off their bodies and then attacked the faces of the inverted chained-up skinless victims until they were so much pulp and bone.  This is a charming tale, but the most interesting part of it is that Barthas carried out this ceremony in a rage that he carries over Arya, who was his most troublesome opponent in our skirmishes.  I would not have guessed that she was able to attack the pride of this undead monster so effectively, but she has, and we shall use that to our advantage.

So, we left the treasury with new toys, a new companion, and valuable intelligence.  I think it is safe to say, especially now because I am about to count the enormous pile of coins in my room, that we had momentum, and the rest of the tower could not be held against us.

Our next challenge was the dining room.  This room was held against us a couple of days earlier, but by twice as many enemies.  With the hobgoblins we destroyed in the entry-hall not counted in the defense of the dining hall, we were able to destroy the remaining defenders with little effort.  When things started going bad for the defenders, I made it worse, turning a large group of goblin slave-warriors against their own masters, before immolating the whole lot.  There were more of the shadowy creepers here to be dealt with, but none could stand against us; we were as well armed and as well spirited as we have been, and I think even Lucretius enjoyed himself just a little in this slaughter.

The only thing worth mentioning about the hobs we defeated in the dining hall is that they seemed to be composed of two different tribes that were formerly warring in The Smear, but were now united under the banner of the ‘Red Hand of Doom’.

(In the margins is written the following note, dated Mirtul 25; Evidence of these creatures banding together before the fires that I may or may not have started; this Cerulean Circle has played me falsely, and I shall see to it that they are paid out properly!)

On the next floor up, we found Thoran, bested him, interrogated him, and killed him.  I should say that he actually had a decent plan; we beat him and the last (so we thought) of his minions, and bound and interrogated him.  We then took him to the ritual chambre in which we would later find Lady Saharel.  However, let me not get ahead of myself.

When we took Thoran prisoner he seemed quite compliant.  He explained that he was in fact here to enslave the ghostly sage of the Sceptre Tower.  My suspicions about him being from the new empire of Netheril were further confirmed, and he put up the books and materials needed to carry out the ritual for the enslavement of Lady Saharel. He also confirmed my suspicions that he needed all 8 alabaster pillars (which are presently packed up neat-as-you like in my wagons) in order to finish the ritual.

Thoran had many keys around his neck, and two platinum keys in particular caught his eye as I tore them from him.  He actually gave a smug smile, and I knew immediately what the keys were for.  “Where are they?” I asked, and he gave a chuckle through broken teeth motioned towards a door with his swelling face.  We went into another chambre on the same floor, and found his sleeping quarters and his two playthings who dwelt captive therein.

The two women we found included one shadowvar named Shukah, and the missing blonde elf, Hannah.  They both wore platinum collars and little besides, and I wish I had found them without my retinue in tow.  However, with Arya and our new witch, Radha accompanying us, I played the gentleman.  In fact, I think I did the job a little too well.  We freed the elf first, and covered her up.  She has since been deposited safely to the taproom of the Inn.

The Shadowvar was a complicated case, the first of two that day.  She was clearly a malevolent creature, and though she had the curves to make the blood of any male of any bipedal species boil with lust, it was the cruel look in her eyes that captivated this bipedal devil.  I crossed the room to her alone; everyone else was seeing to Hannah, though some of the more skeptical of my employees was eyeing me suspiciously as I approached Shukah.  I had one of Thoran’s robes in my hands, and I held her eyes in mine as I crossed the room, not once looking at her pale perfect bosom or the tranquilizing line from her ribs to her hips.  I stood nearly nose-to-nose with her, and draped the cloak over her, carefully and deliberately closing it to conceal her nakedness.  The entire time, our eyes were locked like two serpents; we danced together in that moment with our eyes, she a cunning viper and me the proud cobra of Set.  I unlocked her collar, and slid it into my pocket.

“Kethoth Sepret, at your service, miss” I addressed her in her native tongue.  She shot me a malicious smile that in no way communicated thanks, and this defiance made my mouth water.  “Has this man been keeping you ladies against your will?” I inquired of the two latest rescued maidens in my company.  Shukah answered by way of kicking Thoran in the face.  Lucretius stepped in before she could do anything worse.

At this point, we had a bit of a debate about the Shadowvar.  Many in my host, the rescued Hannah included, claimed that she was an evil creature of the same stock as Thoran, and wasn’t to be trusted.  In the end, I declared that she would be set free, and given the chance to prove her worth.  I provided her with some clothing and gear, and through the protests of some of my help, sent her down the stairs and out the door, to do as she would.  Each of her swaying steps away from me was an illicit invitation to a violent copulation, but I simply savoured it while she walked off, and tried to block out the din from the protesting children behind me.

After Shukah was freed, an even more heated debate ensued.  Biard and Tyriol pressed me for an answer as to what I had planned for the other Netherese villain.  I was in a tough spot; I wanted to say to Thoran “let us slice up these mouth-breathers to ribbons, and after we’ve supped on their livers, why don’t we go and have our way with this ghost?”  However, I am amending my ways, if for no other reason to achieve better results.  There was no sense switching alliances just yet, so I came up with something that I thought was both fair and beautiful.

“Let us dress this loathsome villain as one of us” I declared triumphantly.  “Then, let us march him to the doors, and set him free.  He will have to run through the missile fire that has harassed us so many times, and so by his own machinations be judged.” I wore a smile from ear to ear, but I guessed my company wrong, again.  I had proposed a poetic solution to the problem; Thoran would surely be slain by his own men, and our hands would be clean.  I was certain everyone would see it my way.  It wasn’t so.

“You’re mad as a troll, Wizard, if you think I’ll trust judgment to your scheme” declared Baird, with a puffing of his chest.  The rest of the team rallied around him, and each made his or her incongruous argument against my song for justice.  The din of their pettiness became more than I could bear.

“Enough!” I said, in a voice a little louder and more agitated than usual.  I felt maligned and frustrated, and was more than a little upset with myself for letting this rabble think there was a democratic process at work in our midst.  “We will drag this cretin along with us until our business in the tower is concluded, and decide later what his fate will be.”

Thoran’s fate was decided on the next floor, where we met the Lady.  We dragged him up the stairs to the ritual chambre, where we found a very strange old man who simply cackled insanely at us as we entered the room.  This chambre was large, and no light we had would get into every dark corner of it.  We could see the incomplete ring of alabaster pillars in a circle around a shimmering field, and I must confess that for a moment I felt a punch of excitement.  All this talk of ghosts and quests for the last few weeks took hold of me, and I couldn’t wait to see what Saharel actually had to say to us.

However, before we could initiate any course of action, Thoran called out to the cackling old man, who promptly turned into a large Ogre Oni, and set about pummeling us thoroughly.  The Oni are a very dangerous and magical variety of ogre, and I knew we didn’t stand a virgin’s chance on a galleon going against it in a stand-up fight.  I realized immediately that the same circle that was being used for the capture of Saharel could be used to imprison and command the Oni, and I commanded the team to knock the pillars over.

This was difficult work; the largest and strongest of us, Luc and Baird, were needed to hold the creature at bay, while the smaller of us tried to knock over the stones.  All the while, Thoran was screaming commands at the supernatural ogre.  At one point, Luc was on the ground, and the ogre was holding Baird against a wall by his neck, and Thoran, still bound and laying prostrate on the ground, was giggling with delight.  Ender and I were both pressing as hard as we could against one of the pillars, and I could tell by the look on his face that he had endured enough of Thoran’s mischief.  He gave me an interrogative look, and I nodded a silent assent.  The thief carried out the cold business of silencing Thoran forever, and I managed to knock over the last pillar a moment later.  The Oni roared something between defiance and triumph, and vanished in a flash of acrid smoke.

And just as the Oni made his exeunt, did the Lady Saharel make her entrance.  She appeared just as we suspected; an apparition within the summoning circle, raven haired, floating about and saturn in expression.  She addressed us, but to be perfectly honest, I wasn’t paying attention to her words.  While her ghostly lips moved, I was having a discussion with myself in my head.
