Significant Entries from the Journal of Chadrazzan Kossur...
----

== The Moonshaes, Eleasias, 1373 ==

Well, I like the people of Caer Calidyrr about as little as their rural cousins, and I am anxious to leave what passes for a City in this archipelago, but Mae is insisting that we stay a few days. Of course, she gets her way. Few will stand up to her wishes, including our lack-wit Captain, and least of all Brenan, who is her constant shadow. I guess I can’t blame them for bending to her will, but I grow uncomfortable here, despite the fact that I have managed to actually get as far away from Unthalass as I wished.

===A few days later...===

Well, the Witch and the Windwalker have departed for Neverwinter on some terribly important business. Their business is of such a sensitive nature that not only could they not tell the Captain what it was, but would not even travel with him. While it is understandable leaving Cpt. Mudge out of anything more important than washing behind one’s ears, I feel a little put out that my former adventuring colleagues would not include me in their plans. But, such is the life of one such as I.

Still, I am forced to wonder at what Maevri thinks of Chadrazzan. We have endured some adventure and hardship together, and I wonder how she ranks my friendship. This will bear closer investigation. I need only a lock of her hair...

As it stands, we will be meeting May and Brenan in Baldur’s Gate some time around the Autumnal Equinox. In the mean time, we have heard that there are many naval cannons in Lantan (which isn’t too far from here) that we will go to look at. While I believe that such modern contrivances do a haphazard, loud and violent job that could easily be accomplished with Art, they certainly have some value as tools of deterrence. Most men (foolishly) think that a cannon is more dangerous than myself, or even May.

=== Next day... ===

Our Captain is a bloody lummox and a dim wit! He has been hitting the bottle a little harder than even he is accustomed to, in port. As a result, he has been hitting every card table in Calidyrr a little harder as well. And today, I had the misfortune of learning of his most recent conquest at the table.

Whilst scribing a very expensive and time-consuming Black Light scroll, I hear a knock on the door. “Go away”, I humbly request of my would-be-visitor.

Again, there is knocking, and I recognize it as the drunken determination of my Captain’s unsteady fist. Though I know my words are meaningless by this point, I once again ask for the intruder to leave, saying “go away you impudent fool.” I further add; “whoever you are”, so as not to let the Captain onto the fact that I am acutely aware that it is his particular visit (a most unsavory, brutish and unenlightening brand) I am trying to avoid.

The results are not unexpected. There is an awkward fumbling of a key ring, and some low cursing of some variety, of which the only details I could make out included my questionable heritage and a suggestion that I do not know the black hearted devil that bedded my mother. A little more fumbling and drunken clanging about, and my door is unlocked and our noble Captain makes his ignoble entrance.

Sure enough, Zechary enters, and I am somewhat amused at his appearance. He is scorched all over, and I note that his eyebrows are singed almost completely from his face. No doubt, his alcoholic breath had something to do with the conflagration about his face. But he is smiling that same foolish and vacant smile that he seems to have mastered. And he has pets with him.

In behind him came a pair of Sanguinus nigricollis ignemus, leaving smoking little fires everywhere they walk. I have not seen any of these since my schooling in Skuld, and I am somewhat intrigued, but also frightened. Lessons and warnings from years ago at the university come streaming back to me of a sudden, and I am overwhelmed. These creatures have no place in proximity to my papers and books, but the Captain seems completely oblivious to this fact, and encourages them along into my sanctum.

I look on, horrified, as one of the little creatures scampers up onto my desk, setting my scroll aflame. I have just enough time to swipe everything into a drawer before complete fiery ruination is visited upon the rest of my work. Zechary is oblivious to this too. He just begins to prattle on.

“Yar, Kethoth me man! What do ye make of these then?”

I am certain of their nature. Though they resemble smoky, molten monkeys, they are in fact a form of Elemental Kin. A very destructive breed, in fact. I find them endearing, especially their fiery little eyes. But I cannot bring myself to admire them at this moment, as an entire days work, and several hundred gold coins worth of materials have just been consumed by the little demons, the machines of Zech’s impudence and ignorance.

“I won em off a salt at thee taps. Fella told me they’d fetch a few thou in Calimport.”

I give the good Captain the name of the creatures, and indicate the damage they have done. Zechary is aware of neither of these facts until I tell him.

“Eh don’t be such er a soggy roger. I’ll split the profits with ye. A sag-nigri-ig-what’s it?”

“To Calimport then...”

I don’t know what I wanted more; to have the money or to just have the idiot out of my domicile. We are off to Calimport either way, and I am glad of the news. I have been meaning to visit that City for some time.

In the morning, I shall have to memorize an arcane lock and fix that door of mine.

== Calimport ==
=== Day One - An Old Friend ===

My first day in Calimport was a little rockier than I had anticipated. Though I am presently writing this from a most comfortable and suitable room in a well-appointed villa in the City, my arrival was met with something less than plush carpets and veiled sluts.

Now, I have visited many Cities of the Realms. More than most people even know about. And I have had very unpleasant welcomes indeed. But Calimport stole the show! I wasn’t halfway down the wharf when I was ambushed by a very elite variety of robber or mugger. A man, unarmed though fell in his use of his fists and feet, attacked me out of the blue. His initial assault was determined, focused and refined, and were I any less of a man than the sturdy son of a Kossur, I should have faltered.

But, I immediately took the initiative and put the man on the move, summoning a giant spider, viper and a wolf beside the assailant, wherever he might step. He was determined, at first, to get at Kethoth’s throat, but my fine and cherished wolf put him on the run after all. He vanished into thin air, but quickly found that invisibility will not hide you from the servants of Kethoth.

Well, the brigand had heels, no doubt. He could run twice as fast as a man, and my pets had a difficult time keeping pace with him. I decided to employ the Art so that I might watch the man, and indeed, I saw him bounding, effortlessly, from moored boat to moored boat. My wolf was close behind, but could not track him as quickly as he could flee.

It was at this point that I noticed that I was not alone in my struggle. Coming towards us was a previous acquaintance, Cedric Blackchalice, a half elf from Aglarond, and a sorcerer of unique ability. Clearly, he had seen some of the struggle, as his guard was up, but he could not see the villain running right towards him.

“Cedric!” exclaims I. “There’s a good man! He’s right here!” and with this, I send a spectral hand following after the invisible coward, pointing him out. Cedric wasted no time in putting a shadowy fiendish ape right in his path. With this, the fleeing brigand decided he would make one more attempt for Kethoth’s throat, and he turned about to come after me.

Well, this man was not to be trifled with in close quarters, I can testify. So, I decided to bury the odds completely in my favour, and used a scroll to summon forth another Abyssal hound. The villainous monk thought better of the situation, and made to flee. I should think that the monk would have actually done fairly well against my wolves in a flat out foot race, but my first wolf managed a reckless, flying lunge at the fellow, and nearly ripped the running man’s leg from it’s socket. The second wolf found the prostrate monk easy prey, and took him by the head. The wolf shook with such vigour that the monk was quickly transformed into a limp and bloody mess that was somewhat unrecognizable as a man.

“Good to see you, Cedric!” I properly said, as I closed to examine the pulpy mess.

If my welcoming party was a little crude, the rest of the crew of the ‘‘Wastrel’’ were given an even colder welcome. Of all things, a floating island-fortress, which I think to be of Netherese origin, attacked the ‘‘Wastrel’’! A score of archers and some mages rained down an overwhelming attack upon the ‘‘Wastrel’’, and I though she would be bested.

Indeed, I am sure she would have been taken, but the Captain showed his stuff, as he does with the barest frequency possible to maintain his position on the ship. He put her out as quickly as possible, and the battle raged on into the harbour. By the time my fight had ended, the ‘‘Wastrel’’ was already making for the gates of the harbour, and I saw that she was slowly making distance on the floating fortress. Wonder of Wonders! I can’t believe I actually saw that!

Cedric and I marveled for a time, and speculated, and at length we stripped all of value from my attacker. He had little of real value, but did have a minor abjurative ring that I am sure will fetch a nice price. It was with the ‘‘Wastrel’’ out of view that I took the time to examine my attacker closely. He was a lean and fit man, no doubt, and he was of a hue something between a drow and a dusky man, and between Cedric and I, we both agree that he is from Anauroch or some such place. With this piece of the puzzle in place, I speculate that the rumoured inhabitants of ancient Netherese cities have come after the ‘‘Wastrel’’, and that is bad news. Just about everything I own is on that ship! Certainly, the attack upon Kethoth and the attack upon the ‘‘Wastrel’’ are not happenstance.

I wished to preserve the look and memory of my attacker, for future benefit, and made to do so. However, Cedric was taken aback by my drawing my blade, as I made to take the head. I explained that all I really wanted was to remember his face, in case we needed to identify the man in days to come. Cedric, a man of quality, taste and skill, proposed preserving the man’s face on paper, and promptly and deftly made the picture found opposite this very page!

With this, we headed off into the City.

I shall say this; Calimport is the most civilized City this side of the Sea of Fallen Stars, and no mistake! The smell of the multitudinous slaves was a pleasant reminder of more peaceful and entertaining times in my home before...

The streets are sensibly divided by clever architectural contrivances, to elevate the citizens of substance above the others. It was this higher path that I took with Cedric, and I found it a most satisfying mode of conveyance. The streets of the City, even at the late hour, where quite busy, and a thousands scents wafted up from the myriad faces and bodies, and from small trails of smoke from this house and that.

I like this City.

Cedric, a man (of sorts) of means and quality, as I have said, is renting a villa in one of the overwhelmingly abundant boroughs of the City. It is a fine place for a man such as he, and suitable even for me. I confess that I am quite comfortable, and (the assault and loss of my friends and possessions notwithstanding) happy. Cedric has a few quality servants, and I presently want for nothing except answers.

As it turns out, Cedric was on his way to meet the crew of the ‘‘Wastrel’’, when the aforementioned assaults happened. He claims that he was sent to find May, in order to deliver a message to her. She is to go to Westgate to seek out one known as the ‘Free Thinker’ who may have some information about the ‘‘Wastrel’’ and those that are after her. Of course, May is a little indisposed, so we shall have to put our heads together tomorrow to figure things out.

For now, I must sleep. My jaw and ribs are a little sore...

=== Day Two ===

Today held some illumination, and some fun.

I started the day by memorizing a Scry spell, in order to learn of the ‘‘Wastrel’’. Though Cedric was more concerned about some Harper’s errand in Westgate, I was chiefly concerned with the fate of my things (and friends). And so, we found our way to a rather large mage guild in another large and populous borough. I was well received, but my service was, understandably, limited due to my exclusion from their local guild. I was treated well, however, and walked away wanting for nothing I had come seeking.

For the stiff but fair price of one hundred gold coins, I was able to rent a proper scrying mirror and a private room in the guild. I used my single spell to spy on the Captain. With scrying, it is always best to attempt to spy on fools and others of weak will, if you haven’t the materia corpus required to fetch those of more mental integrity. The Captain was no problem.

I spied him manning the wheel and driving the proud ‘‘Wastrel’’ southwest. I was able to glean little else, but Captain Mudge seemed alive and well and somewhat animated. This makes me think there is some protracted pursuit that he is involved in. The fool loves the chase, whether he is chaser or chased.

At the guild, I was also able to obtain a couple of scrolls that I had been pondering of late. The guild was not interested in selling me any spells greater than the second circle (understandably), but I was able to procure Message, Shield, Unseen Servant and Comprehend Languages. Further, I purchased a few components for Identify spells, as we seem to always have need of more of these spells than we have components for.

With the knowledge that the ‘‘Wastrel’’ was still above the waves and in the hands of my companions, I was a little more at ease. Cedric showed me a few places in this fabulous City that I thoroughly enjoyed, and we pawned the finer weapons that we took off the (?) Netherese attacker from yesterday. With a few coins freely taken, we decided to inject them back into the local economy, in various establishments of revelry. Easy come, easy go.

===Day Three===

This day was far more illuminating than yesterday, and our course is clear.

I began the day by memorizing three scry spells and four message spells. We then went back to the guild, which was more than happy to take one hundred more of my coins.

My first attempt was upon May, and I am delighted to report that it actually worked this time. Further, I was able to communicate with her through the mirror. She was not willing to disclose any of her heroes-business with Kethoth, but I was able to tell her of the events down here, and of the message she was to receive. The long and the short of our conversation was this; that we are to continue to plan on meeting with May and Brenan in Baldur’s Gate at the Equinox, and that we should proceed to Westgate to investigate this ‘Free Thinker’.

Next, I scried upon Lendin aboard the ‘‘Wastrel’’, and was able to speak with him as well. The crew is well, but the Netherese fortress continues to harass the ‘‘Wastrel’’. The ‘‘Wastrel’’ is faster, if the wind is right and she takes a straight course, but the floating fortress is more maneuverable and will catch up when the ‘‘Wastrel’’ has to tack aggressively. All aboard are unsure why they are being pursued, but suspect it is simply for the artifact-quality ship that we command. I indicated that we would head to Westgate to follow up on the message intended for May, and that we would meet in Baldur’s Gate at the prearranged time.

Though I am somewhat worried about the ‘‘Wastrel’’, I am sure that the capable hands on board will deliver her from danger, and that we shall see their faces again.

Cedric and I are relieved to have contacted the Witch and the ‘‘Wastrel’’, and to have a focused plan; Tomorrow, we shall set out for Westgate.

=== Day Four ===

This morning has been busy. We were lucky to have found a boat bound for Waterdeep first thing in the morning, and Cedric had his boys pack us up quickly. Before ten bells, we were aboard the Bodiger, and well on our way. The trip will not be luxurious; our accommodations are sparse, but clean, and I had the misfortune of spying the larder as it was packed in; naught but salted pork for the better part of a month.

== Days Later, at sea... ==

Cedric is a pretty good fellow. I don’t find him to be the least bit judgmental, and he certainly knows how to enjoy himself, and spread a little of that joy about him. I can’t remember the last sober night I spent aboard these planks.

Of his natural talents, I know little, but not nothing. The man employs the shadow weave, and that is certain. I know enough of arcana and religion to recognize his brand of sorcery. Now, I don’t put as much stock in most sorcerers as I do mages; a sorcerer is an unrefined and uneducated creature that wields magic like a bugbear wields a club. But Cedric does a great deal with the few tricks he knows, and his creativity is an asset to his brand of spell slinging. Certainly, his spells make life easier for us aboard ship.

Of the religious consequences of his employment of the Shadow Weave, I can say that I honestly do not care. I don’t care for the Creation Myth of Shar and Selûne, whether it is true or not. I don’t care if his employment of the Shadow Weave somehow furthers Shar’s ends. There is more than enough Weave to go around, and Cedric has never acted in such a way to suggest that he is somehow looking to end the source of my power. He hasn’t even acted in such a way as to suggest some form of support for Shar. Not that the followers of Shar bother me much, anyway.

Cedric is a capital fellow, and I am glad to have him along. My only complaint is this; though his brand of weed is half as offensive as Salazar’s, he smokes twice as much, and Tiefling or no, I can’t countenance the stuff!

==Eleint==
===Baldur's Gate===

We have made Baldur’s Gate in horrible time. The ‘‘Wastrel’’ would have made this journey in a quarter the time, and I do not foresee us getting all the way to Westgate and back in less than 20 days! We shall be late for certain, but our errand shall be run. We would not want to upset the Harpers, would we?

We have purchased passage upon a barge to go up river. The trip to Ireaebor is to take nine days I am told. This will be a more difficult nine days than any upon the ‘‘Wastrel’’ or even the Bodiger; this boat is full of small minds and suspicious eyes that never leave me. I think I will save my writing until we make the safety of Irieabor...

===Iriaebor===

We have made Irieabor in the predicted nine days. Say what you will about river travel, it is almost a science in lands where the river is life. More so than the Sea ever shall be, for the Sea cannot be predicted so. The River Chionthar is broad and fast, and our barge employed a combination of locomotive measures; oar, sail and ropes and mules all brought us up river in precise and measured fashion. The traveler along the Chionthar does not go long without discovering a small settlement of farms or a little village. Both sides of the river are dotted with such establishments, and the land is fertile for both cultivation and esthetics, indeed.

Of the larger towns we saw very little; the boat did not tarry long in any of them, as it was making what it called an ‘express’ journey to Irieabor, which suited the Shadow Walker and the Devil just fine. I did note their names; Elturel, Scornubel (a place I would like to revisit at some point), Berdusk.

In Irieabor we did not tarry long, either. Time is against us, I feel, and I wish to see this errand completed with as much alacrity as possible. Fortunately, Cedric and I can go as fast upon summoned mounts (which we don’t mind running until they expire) as the eagle can fly, and we will make Westgate quickly, barring any unforeseen delays.

===Teziir===

Tonight, I am writing in a cozy room in the Dragonmere Cups in Teziir. This is a quality inn that we were lucky to have found a room in. I have not traveled such a busy road outside of City gates, in any part of the world I have been to.

As one travels the Traders Road during the fairer seasons (fairer of weather and of gold), it is often times necessary to go around the multitudinous caravans that choke the road. In a given day, one might pass ten or twenty of them. Some of the caravans I have seen are over forty wagons in size, and hundreds of men strong.

All the way from Irieabor to Teziir, the road has been dotted by settlement after settlement. We passed a number of small/medium sized towns, including Easting, Priapurl, and Elversult. Between each of these towns, located the distance of one day’s travel for a typical wagon, one finds smaller settlements catering to the traveler. There is always at least one inn, and often two or three, of varying sizes and qualities. Around these, business has sprung up; wagonwrights, blacksmiths, provisioners, packers, joiners and auction halls are found in most of these small (and often nameless) settlements. While there is one for every day of travel by cart, we passed three per day, as we drove our slathering mounts until they would falter.

Finally, we have made Teziir, and I am told that Westgate is just a couple days away. For quite some distance, the road to and from Teziir runs along the coast of the Dragonmere, which is a large bay in the Sea of Fallen Stars. The smell of the salt water brings me mixed feelings; I love the freedom of the Sea, and it’s fathomless majesty. But, on the other side of that water is Unthalass, and thousands that would see me hung. Indeed, they may be here looking for me. Tonight, while standing on the balcony of our fine room in the Dragonmere Cups, I took a moment to ponder, whilst looking out over the waters, to which the Cups is adjacent. I guess my silence and mood betrayed my depth of thought, for instantly I found Cedric at my side, his smoke beginning to enwreath me.

“You have memories on the other side of that water, I suspect” where his words to me.

“Bad ones” I confessed to the man, much to my own surprise. I have never hinted a word that there is trouble in my homeland.

“I have memories of all sorts across that water, some good, many bad.”

“The Waters are a constant means of escape. But, the Waters are a constant link, a constant reminder, of the things that they touch on the other side” I offered, feeling a little more philosophical than is usual. Then Cedric offered a great bit of poetic philosophy himself:

“Let’s get a drink.”
