[PC Attribution: Chadrazzan Kossur (Les Blackwell)]
Mirtul 26

It is noon hour, and I should be going to sleep. Even Mattrick has turned in, having been on his feet (as I was) for nearly 40 hours straight, most of it spent fighting or preparing to fight. However, there is so much running through my head that I must endeavour to record some of it.

I will begin with the second wave of the Red Hand. To summarize it neatly, we repelled the seige, but with a disheartening loss of one of our own. I will get to that below. I was amazed to see the troops fight as a team, with Volund and Paetr lending their expertise most efficaciously. I shall have to ask Volund about all the frost he seems to leave in his wake, but he an aloof soul. I shall have to keep an eye on him.

Though we did not have the defenders to keep the Red Hand out of the settlement, the walls having been breached in a dozen places, they funneled through small holes only to be slaughtered by us. My pyromancy burnt another hundred or so of the damned green vermin, and to be honest, this wave was much less effective than the previous.

Still, we lost one of our number, and this was because of a confluence of events that all happened simultaneously, which were impossible to interdict.

As the battle with the rank and file Red Hand was drawing to a close, having suitably obliterated the bulk of their forces, we were set upon by the wyvern-rider, who dropped right down into the courtyard. Most of my own troops were upon him quickly, and a desperate attempt to unhorse the brute ensued.

At that very moment, I was standing in the back door of the keep, hurtling missiles at the rider, and keeping an eye on the defenseless souls in our make-shift hospital. I saw Zita lead the women-folk out another door and head towards the barn in the midst of the chaos.

Also at that very moment, Barthas showed up with a small host of undead creations, and caused a large enough distraction in the courtyard that my henchmen were unable to bring down the wyvern or its rider, or indeed, were unable to get at Barthas to pin him down; he’s a slippery enough character when there is only him to worry about, but we were still fighting orcs on a couple of fronts, fighting their leader in our midst, and having women go missing at the same time.

Barthas won that round. To be honest, I did not think we would see him so far from his home; this is at least 50 miles away from Spellgard, and vampires to my knowledge have difficulty crossing vast distances. Barthas did not, however, and for the first time, he took us by surprise. To be very specific, he took Arya by surprise. He dragged her down to the ground, and when he got back up again, she simply walked off with him. Mattrick was beside himself with rage as he tried to escape the melee with the Red Hand general and his winged mount, and though Tyriol and I managed a couple of parting shots, it was clear that Barthas had played this card as well as could be played.

In the midst of all this madness, Cayd came running into the keep and frantically asked me where the women were. Now, I remember the last words I had spoken to Cayd, and they were this, precisely; “If you ever interfere with me again, or even deign to address me, I will destroy you.” I will not jump to Cayd’s defense here and say “he was just concerned about the women-folk, Kethoth. Could you not have spared him?”

No, I could not. I spoke my oath, and I kept it.

I answered Cayd, telling him that the women went with Zita up the main tower in the keep. This of course was a bare-faced lie. A moment later, returning from the fight with the two centre-stage villains, Kohr came storming into the keep like a gelded bull, screaming for his women. “Cayd said they went up the tower, Master Kohr” I lied to the lummox. Kohr chased Cayd to the top of the 7-story tower, and by the time they got back down, Zita and Kohr’s family were gone.

This is the rest of the story; Zita, as it turns out, was some sort of slaver, and she convinced the women (Suriy and the girls) that they would be safer in the barn, where they were subsequently absconded. Kohr was furious when he got down the stairs into the keep, where he came at me with murder in his eyes. I managed to convince him that Cayd had played us all falsely. I acted quickly.

“Zita was your stable-hand, was she not? One of two, including Cayd, in fact. Let us check the barn sharpish.” I spoke quickly and confidently. Of course I did; I knew they had gone to the barn, after all, and I half-believed that Cayd was in on this heist.

Those of us that could be spared from the dying-out assault by the last of the orcs ran into the barn immediately, where we did indeed find a secret tunnel unearthed, and Tyriol confirmed that the tracks of the ladies and some men lead down below.

“Now is not the time for judgment and sentencing, Kohr” I said to him, as he eyed up both Cayd and I, and was clearly deciding which between us he would behead, if not both. “Your family is in danger, and we must go now. Save your metal for those that have your women.” He frowned, waved his sword at my nose and Cayd’s, and jumped down the hole. We caught up with him later. I stayed my men before they could follow the suicidal fool.

“Bind this one!” I commanded, pointing to the halfling. Cayd made a plea to his brother for his freedom, but Ender just looked away, and examined his yellow toenails. To make a long story short, we kept Cayd under shackle and guard in the smithy, and most of my cadre followed the tracks in the tunnel.

The tunnel was a recent vintage, and it went only a hundred yards or so before it emerged by the river. We were able to follow the tracks, and had a couple of rolling encounters with a variety of curious undead creations.  In retrospect, it seems strange that Barthas should have been obstructing our path to the slavers.  Perhaps these monsters just had our scent and would have intercepted us no matter which way we left the stables, or perhaps they were just happenstance undead prowling the hills.  I seriously doubt the later.  However, this small fact, which has escaped my attention until now, makes me think that Barthas may have been cavorting with the slavers.  That hypothesis is enough to make me consider a trip to the Bandit King of Llork (more on that below).  At any rate, it shows that Barthas is a creature of means and influence, and not to be undersold.

By the time we got past all the undead hindrances, the eastern sky was starting to turn grey, though the rains hadn’t stopped. It was two days since I had slept, and I was hobbling along on one broken leg, and managed to snap an ankle in the morning twilight, so that I nearly had to crawl to the last encounter.

However, in the end we did find a cabin and a cave where the slavers were holding Korh’s wife and girls, and they were unable to resist us. Kohr himself blundered onto the scene towards the end of the encounter, and nearly ruined it for us. I wanted Zita taken alive, and it was a difficult matter to convince the berserk barbarian to stay his blade.

Finally though, as the first rays of light broke through the receding clouds, and the rain was diminishing to a drizzle, the slavers were beaten, the girls were recovered, and Zita was in a set of my manacles. A devil such as me can’t have too many manacles on hand. I managed to convince Kohr to let us take Zita into the cabin to interrogate her. I took Ender with me as a witness, though not at my request. I would have been happy to pay this little bitch out for my ankle without anyone watching, but both Mattrick and Kohr demanded a witness, seemingly with a single mind. At least Ender isn’t afraid of a bit of blood and hard questioning.

We had some of our muscle drag her into the cabin, and tie her down to a chair. Mattrick gave me a sour and disapproving look, but I would not relent. “Tie her down tight; I don’t want her squirming when I start peeling the flesh from her breasts” I said to him with a wink and a smile. I think Mattrick assumed I was just making outlandish threats to get what I wanted, or he would never have left. Zita believed what I said, having not seen me wink, and Ender, I am quite certain did not know if I would indeed skin her or not. I did not in the end, but I would like to have taken a week doing it, I was so incensed at having to pursue her in the stormy night and the consequences it had to my one good leg.

At any rate, I made some more terrible threats, and killed two birds with one stone. Ender heard me threaten to summon a pair of “demons twice as large and scaly as me” to love her, as well as a number of other unpleasant things that would have been wonderful to carry out, and I think he caught a glimpse of Chadrazzan Kossur, which is well. It is time he feared me. She certainly did. The promise of being passed between a scalding pair of ungentle lovers made her confess everything. But let me add one particular detail that I did not miss.

“Who do you work for, woman” I asked her. Just briefly, she looked to Ender, and there was a look in her eye that I have learned to identify. I took this subtle glance to mean that Cayd was involved in this matter, and to be honest, this sunk my spirits a little. I was quite pleased with myself for implicating him in this slavery plot, but it turns out that my gut-reaction to this diminutive villain was right. Anyway, her official answer to my question was that she was working for Garrus Cal'Botran, the Bandit King of Llorkh. That is a matter we shall have to let simmer for a while.

When I took this information to Kohr, he beheaded her on the spot before anyone could say a word. That is too bad. She might have made a fun prisoner for a while.

Anyway, it was time for us to head back to the ranch. We had rescued the damsels, found the villain or villains, and were tired as mules. We made a brief reconnoitre of the area Barthas and Arya had been, but the rain had completely obscured their tracks.

Some of our number were crestfallen. They thought that Barthas had won, having made good his escape with the soul of our company. I was a little dismayed, but didn’t let it show. Anyway, I had a solution to this problem.

“Kohr” I approached the master of the ranch who was now setting about assessing the damage and loss from the assault. “I have asked for nothing from you in this matter of defending your home, but I have need of you now. There is a vampire that has followed us for more than 50 miles, and it can’t be far away. It must be hiding someplace accessible to it, and our Eladrin. Do you know a place it might go nearby?”

The barbarian scowled at me, but he was fond of Arya, and he nodded his head. “I know exactly where it is.”

We are all exhausted, and there is no way we can pursue the monster and our abducted little chick. Kohr says there is a network of caves a few miles away, and that we can reach them in an hour’s ride. Our plan is to rest for the day, and hunt the vampire before the sun goes down. I have assured our company that Barthas won’t be able to turn Arya in such short time, and in the middle of the day. I hope I am right. I was wrong about him not being able to follow us so far from his lair.

I will rest now. This evening we are going to settle matters with Barthas.
