Significant Entries from the Journal of Chadrazzan Kossur...
----

News from home is a dreadful thing for most, and for this tiefling especially. While canvassing the two local public houses in search of armed meat for Illustryel’s silly task, I met a pair of remarkable creatures known as Dragonborn; a taxonomy that suits their decidedly draconic countenance. I understood this race to be from Abeir, and though it surprises me to find them in any numbers here on Toril and in this pitiable bar in this lonely backwater not the least; wonders never cease in this age. The Spell Plague has up ended a good many truths and orders that I heretofore understood to govern my world.

At any rate, there was a pair of these creatures, though it turns out that they met here happenstance, but being of common descent, found themselves seated together at the Green Tankard Tavern with more suspicious glares fixed upon the pair of them than I was ever accustomed to. I made their acquaintance, and learned that they are named Lucretius and Tuncred. I will write a good deal more about Lucretius in a bit, but let me focus first on Tuncred, because it was he that brought me news of home.

Tuncred turned out to be some sort of marked explorer from Tymanther, which is what the new inhabitants of Unther call my home. Tymanther is indeed ruled by a city of these dragon men; a place called Djerud Thymar, which Tuncred claims was brought here directly from Abeir. A fantastic tale to be sure; entire cities seem to have translocated right on top of some significant landmarks in Toril, and I don’t find it especially coincidental that this race seems to have been drawn, against their own will I am informed, to a land where the previous inhabitants were likewise drawn thousands of years earlier. My people are not of this realm, and our gods, like those of the Dragonborn, were also alien to this world. History has repeated itself, which it often does, and often with purpose.

Tuncred informed me that there is nothing left of Unther. He said that in the devastation that preceded his people being brought to Unther, and the chaos that followed, nothing of the Untheric civilization remains. That is hard to believe, and I told him as much. Here is where things got decidedly interesting, for me at any rate. Tuncred offered to go to the bar to get us a few drinks, but Lucretius, being as chivalrous and proper as I have come to know him to be, offered to go in Tuncred’s stead, and he parted company momentarily. In that moment, Tuncred said that we could meet later to discuss some issues that he clearly did not want to discuss in front of his countryman.

Later that night, we did indeed have a chance to talk alone, and it was at that time that he revealed to me that he is part of an organization called the , which is a semi-secret organization amongst the Tymantherites that believe dragonborn to be descendants of Bahamut himself. He reaffirmed that we was on an intelligence gathering mission for his city, but that he was concomitantly seeking information about benign dragons while abroad. It was this quest that put me at guarded stance with this fellow. I had offered the lizardly creature employment under the Skinny Mayor’s terms, but now I was a little concerned. I don’t need an unhinged crusader in our ranks looking for good dragons. All dragons are dangerous, and good ones especially. I had no intention then of taking the creature a step further in my business. And if I needed any convincing about the removal of this creature from my own cadre, it came soon after his disclosure about the Platinum Cadre.

Tuncred is (or was, rather) a learned creature of no small experience. After all, he did come all this way, in a world that is essentially alien to him. He worships an oddball of a god, and has a secret mission that demands him to be even more astute than his colleagues. However, he missed a step when he told me about the Untheric Pantheon. He suggested that I must know how it feels to be in an alien land, with the love of a foreign god in my heart. He was right, for the most part. But he then went on to apologize, saying “pardon me... it is cruel of me to mention your gods.”

“Not at all, my noble Son-of-Bahamut” I reassured him. “I am comfortable being somewhat removed from the churches of Thoth and Osiris; they live in me, even when I am far from home, such as it is now…”

“But they are dead, friend!” He interjected somewhat apologetically. “The Old Gods are gone from this world, and most of our priests agree that they were destroyed in the troubled time of this world. I am very sorry for your people.”

“Well, there are many decent gods in these parts” I explained with a smile and false optimism. “I am sure I’ll have no trouble finding a suitable patron. And anyway, I guess I’ve done fine without them all these years anyway, haven’t I?”

I thought I had been clever in concealing my inner rage, contempt and doubt that he had sown, but I tipped my hand just a bit to this creature then. It might have been the turn of phrase “all these years” that put things in order in his mind, but he then and there surmised that I had lived in Unther at least 100 years earlier, and that as an original inhabitant of the place, I might harbour some secret hatred for the creatures that roam my lands. He is only partially right. I harboured hatred for him alone in that moment, and my hatred would be visited upon him later.

At any rate, he guessed that we might not be the best of companions, and he withdrew his offer to take up employment with me, to my relief. We came to an understanding just then. “You have your secrets, and I have mine, my friend” I said to him. “Let us keep it so; I plan to take Lucretius with me, and if you can keep mum about my ancestry in Unther, I am sure I can keep mum about your noble brotherhood.” He smiled and took his leave, no doubt thinking us both safe from each other through our mutual potential for harm.

The following night I caught up with Tuncred on the road, half way to Lhork. I stole into his camp as the Bandit Kossur, and had a little bit of wet work to do with a couple of travelling companions he was with, who were awake and on guard. Before long I found myself kneeling on the barrel chest of this sleeping prodigious creature, and waking him in a decidedly ungentle fashion.

“Awake, you lizard-faced excrement of Tiamat’s ass” I shouted at him as I shook him to wakefulness. He bolted upright and verily threw me halfway across the camp, such was his terrible strength. He was wide-eyed and clearly startled, but I sensed some danger in him, and I acted immediately. I know I was yelling some curse or another at him, no doubt calling into question his lineage, and I enervated him with a potent necromantic spell, and closed the distance again. Knowing the enervation would not last long, and that the creature was more than a match for me if I gave him a chance, I grabbed him by the sides of his head as he struggled to stay upright on weakened knees. I gazed right into his eyes, and I could feel my blood boiling, and that sensation down the back of my spine like it has just become uncoiled and I could spring away any minute; I lolled my head with the powerful urge, and then jerked his nose to mine, and my eyes flared; I could see their burning red radiance flare as my rage peaked.

“I am the son of Kossur, you contemptuous slug, and Kossur is the son of Set! The blood of Set burns in my veins!”

I could feel my blood really course through my veins at that moment, and it made such a sound as it rushed through me that the noises of the world became muted as though underwater. I could feel Set inside me for the first time in probably a century, and his power flowed through me, and out of me. My burning glare made the fearsome dragonborn drop to his knees, his strength and life force leaving him quickly.

“I will give you once chance to live” I lied to him. “Tell me that the Old Gods are not dead. Tell me that the blood of Set burns in my veins!”

He rumbled something deep and low, and nodded weakly. “It burns in your veins, devil…”

“It burns indeed!”

I walked away from a self-made pyre of flesh, smiling ear to ear. I knew I had to get away from this attraction quickly, but I took a moment to feel the tickling heat of the flames on my face, and take in the acrid-sweet smell of the burning flesh. My heart pounded again only for a moment, and I could feel the comforting reassurance of the progenitor of my line somewhere impossibly deep within my chest.

I am the Kossurian. The Blood of Set burns in my veins
