350px|right

28 Mirtul

I have been up all night pouring through various tomes penned by Barthas.  He was a fascinating man and a gifted necromancer, but he is no more.  I have been studying his theories on the mutability of the vampire, whilst holding the crystal skull he used abduct and transform Arya in a heretofore unknown little amount of time.

Let me start at the beginning, though.

We were off at six bells of the evening, traveling light and fast.  Good directions were given to our peerless scout, and after a short hike into the hills, we came to a cliff face with a variety of entrances to a cave network in which Kor thought our quarry would be hiding.  He was right.

The face of the cliff runs west-east, and we approached from the south.  Barthas was standing with his toes daring the sunlight which was fast descending in the west, casting a lengthening shadow before us.  I rode up ahead of the rank and file, and called out to Barthas.

“Monstrosity!  Present yourself to the judgment of the fading sun!  Come forth and do one honourable thing in your stolen unlife.  Destroy yourself and free the minds of my companions.  Do this, and we will put your memory to rest.  Do it not, and we’ll destroy you and your legacy.”

I knew he wasn’t going to respond with any sort of diplomacy, much less take my advice.  But how often is it that one gets to demand suicide of the undead?  Barthas just wore the same confident, arrogant smile that I recall seeing on the face of Baron Maskil a century ago when I threatened him similarly.  Maskil was right to look down his nose at me, though; he would have had me for a late lunch if not for the relentless arcane assault of Maevri.  Barthas was twice the vampire that Maskil was, but I figured we had him cornered and off his game.  I was wrong.

Barthas smiled and nodded his head slightly, and stepped back into the shadow of the cave.  We followed him in.

The cave was not altogether unprepared.  As we made our cautious approach into the cave, I noticed that a huge summoning circle had been meticulously inscribed on the floor.  To Barthas’ impressive Curia NonVitae we can add ‘practiced demonologist’.  I was not happy to see that circle. We were prepared for any number of undead assailants; Mattrick and I destroy them by the score.  Demons, however, are another matter.

I did not have the time to examine the circle too closely, but I did notice one script which was a placation to Lord Baphomet, and I knew we would be in trouble.  Father always said that the Horned Lord’s minions were mindless creatures bent on destruction, and could not be reasoned with.

At any rate, we made a quick reconnoitre of the convoluted cave system, and found that a very deep chasm formed its northern border, with a natural bridge of stone spanning it, leading off to some unexplored (by us, at any rate) darkness.  From this darkness the agent of Baphomet, on loan to our undead quarry, strode across the bridge and towards us with a deliberate pace.

The creature set against us was a Goristro.  This is a demon not to be trifled with, and to be honest, I was surprised that Barthas would employ such an ungovernable monster, with or without the benefit of a powerful circle to protect him.  His choice in guardian, though impressive and initiative-seizing, proved to be his undoing.

After only about ten seconds of battling this hulking behemoth, Barthas joined the fray.  His timing is always spot on, and this encounter was no different.  The bison-headed demonic behemoth was making a furious assault upon our front-liners, knocking them hither and thither, and it looked like we would be unable to handle even this threat.  When Barthas showed up, I knew it was time to go.

I sounded the retreat, and my troops did their best, but between the Goristro and Barthas, we were having a devil of a time getting out of the cave.  Adding to the muddling of our escape was a now-fully undead Aryaluystrinne Miritar, who teleported into the midst of our back-line fighters, and took a determined slash at my very own throat.  My arcane shield kept my head where it belonged, but I was smitten all the same.  I was face-to-face with our lovely Eladrin, who formerly had been the beating heart of my outfit.  Her grace and warmth were always a source of inspiration for the troops when my words and deeds seemed harsh or coarse, but now, her countenance was as cold as her dead flesh, and her radiant green eyes had become black, hateful orbs.  My heart sank as quickly as my arcane escape carried me away from her, and into the last light of day.

To be quite honest, I am not sure what happened in the cave after my expeditious retreat there from; I was first out the door, and expected to see Tyriol next.  When Radha came out, followed by Lucretius and Volund, I began to fear the worst.  There was a knot in the pit of my stomach, but I could hear some lingering struggle inside, and before too long, Tyriol, Mattrick, and to my tremendous joy, Ender came bursting out of the cave, one enraged barn-sized demon close behind.

The Goristro smashed into the entrance, which was just a size too small for him.  As it struggled to squeeze and smash its way through, we took the opportunity to hack, hew, blast and assail the stuck thing.  I would not be writing on this very page if not for the damage we were able to do to the creature whilst it was lodged in the mouth of the cave.  We landed every sort of blow on the exposed head of the thing we could bring to bear.  In the end, the thing pulled free of the hole, and staggered into the light of the valley, clearly dizzied from the battering we had given it.  Some of the troops were surprised that Barthas would send the thing after us, into the light, where we could face it alone.  Kethoth was not surprised.  As I have said, I knew this to be an ungovernable beast, and I was right to sound our retreat; the thing pursued us mindlessly, and we were able to destroy it outside, free of the interference of vampires.  Our Cerulean Circle warden was able to antagonize the simple demon, forcing it to chase him about the field of battle, while we finished it off.  Volund has proven to be a useful watchdog.

I should say, we were only partially free of the influence of the undead; Barthas and Arya stood in the mouth of the cave and attempted to enchant one of us at a time, but our wits held out, and before long, with the Garistro dead, we turned our attention towards the vampiric duo, and danced our last round with Barthas.

Destroying Arya was much too easy.  I was loath to assist in her destruction, but I shouted to the troops that she was now dead and gone, and that we must deal with her next.  Before I had the words out, Mattrick was in the cave dragging her by her hair, kicking and screaming into the sun.  Mattrick had come the same conclusion about Arya I had, and likely faster.  Priests of Kelemvor have no time or sympathy for any undead, no matter their relation.  As she was dragged out, we hammered her with blows and blasts to keep her dazed and unable to teleport away.  Within a few seconds, she was light up like a torch; Ra will not abide a vampire.  Arya is gone; she is now a jar of ashes in one of my trunks.

Barthas was next.  The hearts of my men were sunken but full of vengeance, and we came at the villain with everything we had left.  Barthas knew he was no match for us without help, but he had one last trick to play before he made his escape.  He managed to get inside the head of the very same priest who had just destroyed his new servant, and made him walk off the edge of the cliff and into a seemingly bottomless abyss.  Even Kethoth paused, with a mixture of horror and entertainment, when I saw the glassy-eyed Mattrick take his last step.  Of a sudden he was gone, and we haven’t seen him since.

There were cries of protest from nearly all of my cadre, though I just set my jaw and went to work on our adversary.  Barthas was attempting to make his escape while he was ensorcelling Mattrick, but we cut that short.  He got as far as the bridge before I was able to stick him in place with a blast of ice from my staff and arrows from Tyriol and blasts from Radha did the rest.  As the undead lord slumped to the ground, full of holes and burns, we rushed to seize him immediately.  He was dragged out into the very last light of day, and at the very moment his corpse light with the flames of his final purgation, the sun vanished behind the hills, leaving us in the light of the burning monster.

I resisted the urge to warm my hands in the fire of our roasting adversary, given that two of our friends had just perished at his hands.  I said something such as “If having Mattrick back also meant having Barthas back, I would concede such without a moment's regret\" but I have to confess that I never really felt comfortable with the man around.  I often felt like he alone could see right through me, and though he kept my men and I on our feet through more battles than I can now number, in truth, I’m glad he’s gone.  I made a show of sending supplies and a note down to him which said something to the effect of “We’ll be back for you once we have seen to the aid of the citizens of the Grey Vale, who are now in dire need…hang in there!”  I doubt we’ll be back.  In my own defense I will add that the chasm he vanished into is seemingly without end.  We were not about to sound out the bottom of the thing, and there is no chance that Mattrick survived the fall.

Well, there is one chance.

When we had wasted as much time on tears as seems necessary, we set about rounding up booty.  I was tempted to head directly towards Barthas’ things, but I had to go first to the pile of ashes that was our Eladrin.  Arya wore a ring that was priceless and far more powerful than any of our other magic, and I was worried that the halfling would get to it before I.  I nearly set about to look for him and set him aflame when I found it missing, but I don’t think he had the chance to nick it before my direct investigation on the matter.  I gathered her ashes up in a jar, and put her sword in our growing pile of booty, but the ring is gone.  There is some small hope, for some, that it is on the finger of Mattrick Lychaeus, but that remains to be seen.

The rest of the booty from Barthas was of interest mostly to me and Radha.  We have recovered three of his original works, though I can only read two.  I have been engrossed in ‘By Night and by Wing’, in which Barthas muses over breaking the normal vampiric hierarchies. He was a genius in his art, to be sure.  Again, I find myself struggling with a loathing for the undead monster and a profound admiration for the practitioner of the Dark Arts he had mastered.

Old prejudices die hard, though.  Harder than vampire lords, in fact.

The sun is coming up, and a new expedition will be planned at breakfast.  I return now to Barthas’ writing, until the men are awake.
