[PC Attribution: Chadrazzan Kossur (Les Blackwell)]
Mirtul 22

It is about 3:00 AM, and I am sleepless. I may as well continue.

I went down to the taproom, and found Sister Chara just cleaning up.  Ender is going to be useless to me today.  Chara tells me that most of the troops were up very late, and most had to be carried to bed.  She said they had a mixture of emotions that eventually succumbed to the alchemy of drink, turning into that laughing-crying-hugging-fighting emotion that I have seen in so many inebriated mortals.

I had a drink myself, and enjoyed the warmth of the amber-liquid in my guts, and the effect it had on Chara; she actually sat down opposite me whilst I held the thing and talked to me as though I might not be a toothy devil waiting to get her into a dark and lonely taproom in the wee hours so that I might make a matrimonial bed of one of the sturdy oak tables therein.  I did no such thing of course.  She’s too plain for my taste, and anyway, I have more writing to do before we set out today.

So, there we were, standing with our jaws agape, staring into the space where the Lady Saharel had only moments ago been.  I delivered my dénouement to the troops, and then rallied them.

“It is a shame that she is gone, and an even greater shame that we can’t help her.  Let us stick to the task at hand, my friends.  It is time to poke our noses into the last couple of floors of this tower, and then retire.  It is getting late, so let’s make quick work of it!”

And we did.  We dispatched that last few creatures on the floors above, took a little more plunder, and then exited Tower through the front doors, now safe from any villains on the ramparts.  The sun was a little above the horizon, but it was hidden by thick black clouds that rained a heavy and constant rain that made the ruins muddy and dangerous.  We could see the safety of the Inn not far off.  However, it was then and there that we had our reckoning with the Mercykillers.  They were arrayed between us and the Inn, taking cover and skulking about the many bits of stony ruins.

There were about the same number of them as us, and the threatening and confident manner in which they carried themselves in previous encounters made my troops nervous, but they knew that we were about to be in the fight of our lives, and even though we were tired from clearing the tower, I saw them form up and put resolve on their brows.  I think that was the first time I was proud of them.

The details of this battle are not worth recording.  We fought a desperate battle that started out as a rolling missile-exchange and positioning contest, but ended as an ugly stand-up knock-down drag-out melee, the bloodiest I’ve seen this century.  Even this wizard did not escape the fray unscathed; I shall forever bear a mark on my forearm from the quarrel of some half-bred orc which stuck me.  All the others have their own story scars from this battle.

The worst of it went to Baird, unfortunately, and he did not weather the storm of the Mercykiller’s fury.  I’m not sure exactly how he died; one moment he was on his feet, holding off our foes, the next he was rolling about on the ground, and the next, he was still.  I think he may have been stuck by the same villain that used me for target practice while he was down, but he had so many wounds that could have killed a man, it is hard to say.  Mattrick has been flagellating himself over the loss of his charge ever since, and though I understand his loss and his feelings of guilt, there is only so much praying for repentance that is of use.  I hope the good Priest will snap out of it soonish.

I am not certain I would change the outcome if I could.  We killed each and every one of the Mercykillers, and the plunder from them is some of the choicest we’ve taken.  I miss Baird and his plate-covered bulk, and I know there will be times when I will have a hole in my line that will make me lament for his shield and intractability.  But he is gone, and in two hours, so shall we be.

Once we had our fallen comrade and our fortune secure, we raced to the Inn where some of our number literally collapsed for fatigue and sorrow.  However, there was some unfinished business for us to take care of.

“We have fought and bled and won and lost today, my friends” I addressed the ragged crew.  “However, our day’s work is not yet finished.  I know we have a comrade to honour and to mourn, but let us not rest before we are due.  Baird would not have us leave the Mercykiller’s camp unfound, and the weather is not on our side.  Let us march out, and track these villains to their nest, and make sure we have stamped them out for good.  If we have left one unseen, and still drawing breath, we may still be in danger.  Gather your weapons and your resolve once more!”

With that, we returned in the pouring rain to the site of the battle.  The rain was turning the grounds to a slippery and confounding mud, but Tyriol paid me out again, and managed to find their trail.  We followed their tracks to another part of the ruin in which the Mercykillers had made a camp.  There, we found their supplies, horses, wagons and other bits of plunder, including the last two of the eight alabaster pillars.  We found no other Mercykillers, though I wasn’t surprised.  I knew we had taken the lot of them in the battle earlier, but could not tell the troops “quick, let us find their last remaining valuables before the rain hides it from us.”

The large cellar in which the Mercykillers were camped had a ramp and doors large enough to admit their several horses and mounts (now mine), and it took us some time to gather it all up.  While we were poking around in here, our old friend Barthas sent us some visitors.  We were set upon by a hulking skeletal behemoth which was accompanied by the last three Blades of Korombos.  The effect that the animated skin-bags had on Tyriol and Radha was exceptionally amusing.  One of the victims was a chum of Tyriol’s, while the other was actually Radha’s courtier.  She could not bring herself to attack him, though the thing flung itself on her like he may have in life, with the same zest that an erection gives, but this thing was trying to devour her.

In fact, it is worth noting that most of the creatures went straight for her, and I am not surprised.  I haven’t had time to dissect this issue yet, but Radha bears the marks of Barthas’ thirst on her neck, and I know that the two share a bond.  This bond will make it difficult for us to hide from him while she is in our company, but I wouldn’t have it otherwise.  We will best this monster if he chooses to follow us.  More on that later.

We managed to destroy these new undead creations with some effort; we were as tired as we’ve been in these ruins, and were operating mostly on guts and luck, but that was enough.  We destroyed the creatures, but I managed to roll up the three human pelts, and currently have them in my locked trunk.  I tried to comfort Radha, who was hysterical about the whole affair, and I think I might have just been at the right place at the right time again for her.  I shall have to resist the strong urge to don the face of her lover as a mask and crawl on top of her.  I have no base intentions towards this lovely creature, but can’t help thinking about how delicious a violation it would be with such a costume.  Perish the thought.
