[PC Attribution: Chadrazzan Kossur (Les Blackwell)]
==Entry in the Upper Monastery==

Kythorn 7 Continued

We were in the lower reaches of the Monastery, in a little-used back entrance of sorts which lead to the Forge.  To get to the upper reaches, we had to battle our way up a high, steep stair that was guarded over by many Hand of Doom orcs.  The stair had a number of switch-backs with landings from which we had to sweep moderate resistance.

There was quite a distance to cover, from the exit of the Forge to the base of the steps, across open ground.  The Forge exits from a small promontory of the mountain, and opposite the exit is the main wall of the mountain, the steep stair, and the sky above.  There were perhaps twenty orcs holding advantageous positions on the stair landings above us, all armed with bows, so I decided to take the first landing by subterfuge, rather than a hasty charge.

Dressing the troops up in cloaks and other foul orcish things (orcish garments are crude, but they were an improvement to the wardrobe of some of my men), we approached the first landing unchecked with our successful ruse.  Paetyr and Volund got to within a sword’s stroke before we were uncovered, and we held this initiative for the remainder of the battle upon the steps.

The archers above us were dangerous, but not as dangerous as Tyriol and Radha, and much less so than I.  We swept them from their positions above us without much effort, and soon found ourselves at the top landing, facing the back door into the upper Monastery.

The back door is arge and wooden, and through a window-portcullis Volund espied a squad of monstrous half-breeds that he declared to be some sort of cross between dragons and orcs.  My blood boiled at the mention of this, but I didn’t let it show.

I remembered my dream in the chair at Kor’Murron, in which my father was whipping a slave who bore the sign of Tiamat on his chest; father thrust my face into this slave's chest and declared Tiamat and her followers our eternal enemies.  Father only knew the half of it.  I was certain the shaman that attacked Kor’Murron had markings that betrayed his allegiance to the five-headed-whore, and now my suspicions were confirmed.

===Kethoth Considers his Past===
I will confess that as we stood at the door, receiving whispered intelligence from Volund as he peered down the hall, that I had a struggle in my own mind.  I was trying to put together facts and dreams, and it confounded me for a moment.  Let me explain the nature of my doubt and concern;

The very night I dreamed about the Cult of Tiamat and my father for the first time was the same night that I immolated a hobgoblin priest with Tiamat’s markings all over his noxious hide.  I hadn’t thought about this cult at all since my awakening.  I was forced to question, once again, the authenticity of the dreams I had.  Perhaps they were memories that were flooding back to me, but perhaps they were nothing more than cobbled-together stories from the events of the day.

I was at odds with myself chiefly because I felt some divine purpose just for a moment; when I realized I had found the ancestral enemy of Kossur, I was filled with purpose which I thought was inspired by my Ancestors; I could feel the thrumming of Set's blood in my ears as I thought about burning those dragon-whore-orcs alive, and I could feel my shadowy serpent, Herrutep, tighten about my forearm inside my sleeve, sensing my anticipation and mirroring my emotions.

But, aside from a dream I had after two restless days of battle, there is no evidence that I am who I say I am.

In fact, if there is a more likely explanation for my dreaming about and hatred of Tiamat, it is that I have been in these mountains many times in the last twenty years, as the Bandit Kossur, and may have crossed paths with them before.

This explanation also challenges another piece of evidence for my past; I am imbued with memories of these local ‘heroes’, men who lived a hundred years ago and forged a legend in these mountains.  My memories of them are all brief, and they are connected to me by some degrees; I knew most of them through a Rashemi jade named Maevri, of whom I have many memories and no evidence of her ever existing.  My one and only ‘friend’, Cedric, was an associate of Arkos Thunderstaff; again, I have many memories of Cedrick, and but only a single memory of a brief meeting with Falcon.  And none of them look quite like they do in the local depictions.  To be fair, history never does get it quite right, so one can’t be too surprised that a tapestry depicting The Wanderer would spare him thirty pounds, but all the same, it goes towards making me doubt who I am.

==The General Quarters==
Fortunately I need neither ancient feuds nor a sense of self to immolate orcs and followers of Tiamat.  As soon as the patrol of dragon-orcs was gone, we crept into the upper Monastery halls, and started hunting for prey.  I was spoiling for a fight with these abominations, and we weren’t long in our search.

===Not the Best Place for an Assualt...===
Before we got to the first intersection in the galleries, we heard the noise of a score of orcs coming from the corridor to the east.  Priya, who has been in the Monastery for months, said the sleeping quarters were that direction, and that she had been ushered out of there by her captors a few days ago, leaving behind a scene of terrible slaughter and torment.  We rounded another corner and entered a long hall that had two great sets of double doors that both lead into the general quarters, as well as a set of stairs at the far end of the hall that lead into the cellars.

This was not a good position to assault from.  Priya told us there was a huge hall on the other side of the doors, around which all the sleeping cells are arrayed.  The two sets of doors are far enough apart that they are tactically two separate entry points.  Behind us was the rest of the Monastery and at least one patrol of the abominations that had stalked off, and ahead of us, at the head of the hall, are a set of stairs that could also produce foes.  We should have cleared the stairs and the cellars first, but we didn’t.

I took Tyriol stalking up with me to the further of the two sets of doors, and we both had a listen.  Beyond the great doors we could hear the sounds of the savages making sport with the corpses and bits thereof of the former inhabitants of the Monastery.  I motioned for our heavies to take position at the other door, and presently they were through.  Paetyr and Volund crashed through their door and unleashed hell, while Tyriol and I opened ours enough to start sending volleys of fire at the many foes inside.

===Fate of the Monks Uncovered===
The general quarters had indeed become a charnel house.  As we made our assault, many of us were checked in our advance by the grisly sites we met; one of the green brutes was assaulting a dead priestess in a mock rape for the amusement of his chums, and each lifeless lolling of her cold, pale head as he bucked her naked clay produced a cackling from his audience as ghastly as the deed itself.  At another table, several orcs were playing some sort of game that involved the rolling and battering of severed heads between the players, which likewise produced a chorus of repugnant laughter whenever two brutalized faces collided.  Priya was especially stunned by this macabre display, her familiarity with some of the corpses in the room increasing the horror of the show.  Paetyr was likewise mortified, and though his face screwed up into an expression of mixed disbelief and terror, he charged in headlong without a moment’s hesitation; he is an old campaigner, and has but one more nightmare to add to his doubtless-extensive collection.

===A Desperate Battle on Three Fronts===
The sheer numbers of opponents in the general quarters would have been enough to make us earn our victory; there were probably thirty or forty of them, and better than half were made up of insane berserkers that ran into our midst and exploded upon death, showering us with flames and charred gore.  The counter-assault from the room drove us back by inches towards the doors we had come through.  I had already retreated fully from the room and back into what I thought was the safety of the hall when a second wave joined the battle; the hulking half-dragon monstrosities that Volund had earlier seen now rushed towards the battle from the hall we had come from; I could hear them running towards us, and knew they would be upon us in seconds.  I called a general retreat from the room, so that we could set up a line of defense in the hall, and the troops managed a staggered and hard-fought regrouping outside the general quarters, just in time to face the ten monsters that presently came crashing into our new front.

Fortunately, we had withered the numbers of foes in the general quarters enough that we could spare Paetyr; he was set up facing the fresh-faced second wave of foes, and if not for his deadly hammer and his dwarven predilection for intractability, the day would have been lost.  While Volund was able to hold one door against the remnants of the foes from the room, Paetyr held back twenty times his weight in dragon-bitch-bred orcs who pressed their attack against him mercilessly.  His shield was like a wall, his hammer like an avalanche, and it was only after several surges of the monsters that a couple managed to break through, and these did so by unreal leaps clear over the head of the dwarven defender.

Just as the abominations were beginning to land in the midst of our softer back line, another threat presented itself from the stairs at the end of the hall; a third wave of orcs began to surge up the steps, and we now had a host of enemies on three sides, and a couple in our midst.  We did not have the heavies to hold a third front.  We barely have enough for two, though Volund often surprises me by holding entire flanks of a battle himself from time-to-time, which he did today.  It was Kethoth who held the third front, by way of summoning a ball fire to sit atop the steps.  By the time I planted it there, a couple orcs from that wave had already slipped past, but Tyriol dropped them as neat as you like, and for the remainder of the battle, I held one hand and part of my focus towards my immolating conjuration, and this kept any more enemies from joining the battle from that side.  The two gigantic dragon-orcs that had landed among us were brought down by the desperation and grit of our artillery pieces; Radha took repeated vicious blows from the monsters as she unleashed her destructive magic in close quarters, and it took all the healing power that Priya had to keep her from being cut to delicious ribbons.

While Paetyr focused on the remaining monsters on his front, and we desperately cut apart those that had landed among us, Volund fought his own desperate battle in the door; he faced repeated waves of attack, and every other foe he dropped at his feet exploded, the report from these diabolical detonations interceded and absorbed by our sword-mage, who gritted his teeth and leaned his shoulder into each blast, to shelter his softer allies behind him.  Volund’s front was the first to find victory; as soon as his last foe was felled, and the tell-tale explosion from the insane monster concluded, Volund joined Paetyr and the two pushed back the half-dozen remaining monsters in the hall.  Orc abominations tripped on the bodies of their dead as the weapons of my two front-liners pressed dauntlessly forth.  The assault from the dragon orcs in our midst was neutralized, and with my ball of fire buttoning up the rear, we were all finally focused on one front.  The withering effect of our concentrated assaults was swift and thorough; before they even had a chance to turn and run, we reduced the monsters on the other side of Volund and Paetyr to charred corpses.

There was one brief moment of silence among the troops, as they tried to catch their breath and check their wounds and gear.  However, I still had one hand held out, maintaining the ball of fire at the top of the stairs, and I now made a slight gesture with my palm which induced the ball to roll down the stairs.  I straightened my waist coat, and said “we have a few more rats to fry, my friends; don’t put your weapons away just yet.”

We followed my fire down into the cellars where we found another dozen orcs, and before you could say “seven foxes in the henhouse”, they were so many smouldering bodies.

The general quarters were clear, as were the cellars, and one dangerous patrol was wiped out.

We have destroyed what I estimate to be half the invaders of the Monastery, but still have some officers to deal with.

==The Library==
We took a bit of time to gather ourselves after this desperate battle.  Most of us had a score of wounds of all varieties, and some of the troops wanted to hole up in the general quarters and rest.  I was anxious to keep going, but even before I was forced to give another motivational speech to the men, Priya spoke up;

“The Library isn’t far from here, and it is easier to defend than this…slaughter house…we should keep moving.”

Good enough.

She was right, of course.  She pointed the way down a couple of passages, and before long we were in the antechamber to the library.  This room, about thirty feet on a side with a pair of openings; the one we came in, and that opposite it which leads to the library itself, is dominated by six large crystals, three on each side of the room.  They are larger than a man, and appear to have grown out of the floor.  These are implements of the most reprehensible violation I could imagine.  I will have to skip ahead a bit to explain.

===A Villainous Apparatus===
There is a small chambre off the library proper that we discovered soon after passing through the antechambre and poking about in the small, but well appointed library.  This room has a single table and single door (which we have not been able to gain access through), and as we first entered this room, there were papers drifting down, as though a gentle wind had just disrupted the many stacks of loose sheaves on the table.  Searching through this room, we discovered that among the loose sheaves were unbound copies of the same three books of Barthas’ pen that I had brought into this library, and, horror of horrors, a copy of my Journal!

The six crystals may have many functions, but one they certainly have is the unsolicited copying of any book that passes by them.  The copy falls as loose papers from the ceiling of this room, by way of a potent magic, and stack themselves upon the table to await binding.  Only the academic detachment of the Oghmans could allow for such an amoral invention, and though I am now reluctant to confess anything in this book, I will record this as a warning to the next Oghman with wandering eyes; I will not twice abide an intrusion into my privacy of this variety without replying with flames.

Back in the antechambre, we may have long scratched our heads and speculated about the nature of the now-fluorescing crystals, and any danger they may post to us, but Priya again urged us on.  I shall have to ask her someday if she knew about the unlawful scrying scribe that has me so incensed, before she urged us through its villainous eyes.

We entered the library, and the smell of old parchment and book leather erased that of smouldering and decaying bodies and the metallic taste of blood that is in the air in the rest of this Monastery-cum-abattoir.  The library is not the largest I have been in, but it is a significant repository, and what it lacks in size it makes up for in quality of the collection.  I was filled with a light-headed euphoria when I first stepped foot in here, and as Priya showed us around the place, my fingertips followed the vertical topography of the swollen shelves, and I enjoyed the sensation as though the tomes were the curves of a shuddering lover.

===Enter Rahn'Ohk, Diplomat===
My enjoyment of the place was waylaid by the arrival of the book-learned brute, Rahn’Ohk.  He, and a large host of the ill-bred and contemptuous monsters similar to those we had just slaughtered, choked the hall outside of the iniquitous crystal-harbouring antechambre.  Our fears of having to bear an assault in the library were dispelled with his arrival.  He was unable to step into the antechambre, and from the safety of that malign room I was able to parlay with him.

“What’s this intrusion, you ill-begotten son of a toadstool?  Can’t you see I’m busy in this well-appointed library?” I taunted the thing.  He was more reasonable than most of his kind, and had some ability for diplomacy, and, as we would learn later, deception.

“Miserable demon-spawn” was his rejoinder.  “Why not cooperate with me and save everybody another slaughter?  I do not wish to sacrifice a few of my men in order to obliterate you interlopers.”

“A deal maker, are you?  What a clever execration you must be.  What are your terms, monster?  Could we interest you in exchanging our freedom for a halfling or a dragonborn?  They are lovely with a bit of salt.”

He actually snorted a laugh, and returned to business.  “I want to know the location of two things; the Blade of the Black, and the Nexus.  The answers are in the library behind you.  Deliver these things to me, and you will live.”

“You are welcome to come and do some research with us.  My motley crew could never object to the presence of one more monster in our midst.  Why don’t you come, and I’ll show you how to use the card catalogue myself?  Of course, my only terms are that you don’t eat the books, my women or myself.”

“Enough games, tiefling.  Just find them!”

This was the first we had heard of the Nexus, though I suspected that the Black Blade of Gaebril Tremalkin would be entombed somewhere inside this Monastery.  I had no intention of actually making and keeping deals with orcs, those that ally themselves with my blood-enemies least of all, but I enjoyed our parlay and decided it was best if the assailants of the Monastery thought we were doing their work inside the library; they would be unable and unwilling to interrupt us, so a rest and some answers to long-unanswered questions would be forthcoming.

There was some discussion among the men about how to proceed next.  Paetyr and Volund were of a mind, declaring they did not want to spend a moment in this library while the upper reaches of the Monastery were held by the murderous invaders with whom I had just struck a deal.  It was Priya who suggested that there were probably no more survivors to be found in the place, and that we were not rushing against time.  Her grim speculation proved to be true, though we didn’t know that when I announced that we would try to find out the locations of the two negotiable articles, and see what we could do with them.

“We will rest in this library, and those among us able to look for those things that interest the Hand will do so; these questions are concomitant with our own, and we may as well exploit the opportunity given.  It saddens me to concede that we have gotten here too late to save any more of the monks of this maligned place, but we must now do what serves us best.”  That was that.

===Answers at Last===
As I write this, I have been up all night, and my team is pouring through the library looking to answers to all sorts of questions.  Our research in the library has been recorded in another notebook, so I will spare the details here.  Suffice it to say, we found out much about the Nexus, and the likely location of the Blade.

I should go to sleep, but I am unable to contain my excitement of finding this magnificent repository, and when time permits, I shall have to look for clues to my past.  For now, I return to the Fat Oghman’s disorderly library to hunt down the location of the Nexus.  We have already found the Blade, and I am considering what should be done with it, though I am loathe to record anything until I am well outside of this library.

Back to the stacks…

==The Main Chapel==
Kythorn 8

Today was a perfect day.

We started the day after our protracted research for Rahn’Ohk.  We were all well rested, except for this infernal wizard, who cannot sleep in a library even when he knows it is the best chance he will get for Set-knows how many days, and after breakfast we journeyed out of the library to deliver our findings to Rahn’Ohk.  Of course, there was some discussion about how we should proceed.

“I would be perfectly content” I began the discussion “By heading out into the hall, gutting the insolent raiders where they stand, and marching up the stairs to meet this green devil with the heads of his friends in a bag.  He’s not going to keep his end of the bargain.”

Tyriol made a more confused look than is usual for him, Radha smiled, Priya nodded a silent assent, but Paetyr and Volund digressed.

“We’ve got what they want” protested Volund.  “Maybe we can avoid a fight.  Besides, that hall is full of orcs waiting for us to start something.  It’s not a good place for us to fight.”

“Well, I am sure we would do well in the hall” I replied “And anyway, if we clean up this lot down here, that will be so many more that don’t bother us upstairs when that pointy-headed orc reveals his treachery.”

“I’m surprised you don’t want to try to talk us out of trouble, or into more, wizard.”

“Fair enough, my frosty friend.  Let’s measure this orc’s diplomacy, shall we?”

===Null and Void===
We came out of the library, announced that we had what Rahn’Ohk was looking for, and were escorted up the strange mechanical steps that lead to the top floor of the Monastery.

The expansive room that we came to is both the fortified entrance to the Monastery, from the main road which lies just outside, and also the main chapel.  It is a great, round, vaulted-ceiling room.  The room is laid out rather like a wheel, with the main dais in the middle, four spokes radiating out from it, and a platform all the way around the edge.  The four spaces in between the spokes, the hub and the outside are deep pits, each a sub-chapel of sorts, accessible by a pair of steep stairs.

We emerged out of the centre of the room; the mechanical stairs, which can be raised or lowered to grant or deny access to this large room from below, come out in the centre of the dais, so that as we came up the steep, winding stairs, we were plum in the middle of the rest of the orc invaders, quite surrounded.
