==An Invitation==

\"We have much to discuss, you and I. With Barthas dead, I should very much like to make a full investigation into your condition. At one time I understood these matters more clearly, but today, I am not so sure...\"

The confused look on Radha's face reminds Kethoth that his mind is too often a prisoner of bygone centuries, and that the world has changed.

\"Pardon me. I will cut to the quick, as there isn't time to discuss much. I should very much like the privilege of your company for our journey ahead. I have to warn that it shall be perilous, but that it may also prove rewarding, as our last couple of weeks together have been.

\"You are not beholden to me in any way, but if you would accept my company and leadership again, I would be gladdened for it tremendously. I can also offer you a chance to travel to Waterdeep with me when the chance presents itself; I assure you I hope to get to the City as quickly as possible, but I can't turn my back on the people of Loudwater just now.

\"What say you?\"

==Radha Chooses==

Radha's look of confusion turns to one of contemplation. Eyes drawn to the rubble and remains of Kohr'Murron's former front gate, she considers the Tiefling's offer.

The day she and her partner had set out from Waterdeep seemed an age away. Eyebrows furrowing, Radha thinks back to her first encounter with Barthas, silently cursing herself for being so foolish to think they could escape unharmed from the hands of such a creature; her mind plays over the moment the vampire's foul yellow teeth sunk into her skin, a roiling feeling of disgust growing in the pit of her stomach.

Barthas had killed her lover. Nay, ravaged. Tore the very skin from his bones. Radha's face flushes with renewed rage but pales just as fast. Barthas is gone, she reminds herself, half-heartedly convinced that this is enough to avenge (boyfriend's name).

Radha's loss hurt her dearly, but the events of the last week had lessened the ache. There had been stratagem to devise and defenses to bolster. And the young boy, Morrun, needed guidance and training in the rudiments of Sorcery, which Radha had been willing to give.

But with the siege of Kohr'Murron ended and Barthas dead, Radha realizes she has a crossroads before her.

Radha's gaze returns to the Wizard, \"I am far from Waterdeep, Kethoth. My life there...\" 

The Sorceress pauses, carefully choosing her words,

\"No -- I will join your company and help you with your endeavour, if you and the others wish it. The gods know I owe your company that much for rescuing me from Barthas.\" 

==Kethoth Approves==

\"Lovely\" Kethoth beams at her. \"We will leave first thing in the morning, so pack your things and say your good-byes. I'm glad to have you along.\"
