Mirtul 27, 1479 DR

(It is 3614 MC and 2213 UC…I have finally gotten my bearings in time…)

After more hours awake than I could reckon, I slept as deeply as I recall ever doing.  I am not even sure that it was sleep.  I was submerged in time.

After giving some final instructions to the troops, I sat down in a chair on the balcony level of the great hall of Kor’Murron.  Before I was even settled in, my eyes were closed, and it felt like I sunk impossibly deeply into the chair.  There was a slight sensation of rotation and drifting which forced me to open my eyes.   I could see the ceiling above me, but it looked impossibly distant.  My breathing was a slow and deep affair that I could hear inside my head, and the beating of my heart, heard also inside my head, was like a drum being struck with a blanket a hundred yards away, one beat or so every minute.

I blinked, and I was a child again.  I was a monstrous thing of inestimable violence that was constantly attended upon by two hulking eunuchs who kept my frequent outbreaks from destroying too much.  In this vision, I was 20 years old, and I was watching my father carry out some business with some of his slave masters.  The year was 1832 in my native calendar, and news had come that Thay had invaded her motherland, Mulhorand.  Father was concerned because news of wars could never be kept from the slaves as a general rule, and it sometimes led to small revolts and other unpleasantness that was best taken care of sooner rather than later.

“Go find the biggest slave in each of your prefects” my father was ordering in his calm and pleasant demeanour.  “So much the better if he is loved by his people, and regarded as any kind of leader.  Beat this man to within an inch of his life, haul him off and lock him up for ten days without food.  When he is released, tell him to desist from rumours of wars and freedom or his children will be fed to the jackals.” I laughed aloud at the thought of it, and tried to claw at some of the masters as they filed out.

Later, my father told me that the matter of Mulhorand and Thay was not for laughing.  He said he had planned on sending me to Skuld for an education, but that the Thayvians had grown powerful enough to make him reconsider.  In the end, the child was corrected by the parent.  A decade later, when my boiling time of life was concluded and I could use reason like a proper devil, I did indeed find myself in the old academy in Skuld.  It was good timing too; given the proximity of the Thayvian conflicts, the Mulan weren’t as prejudiced against my particular breed, as was their usual custom.

This image faded, and I drifted through oblivion for a while, until I was again tethered in time.

400px|right|thumb|Chadrazan Kossur outside of the gates of Skuld in the 13th Century

I was standing on a balcony with some of my privileged friends and co-conspirators, looking out over the hundreds of thousands of people that were assembled to watch the coronation of Pharaoh Rehorusteb II in 1982 MC.  We were cursing quietly and making vows to devour Pharaoh someday.  The great concourse of the greatest city every known to men was choked with countless people; some say there were a million pairs of eyes watching Pharaoh as he took the sceptre, and there wasn’t an important person from three nations that wasn’t there on both knees as the new Pharaoh stood before them.  I recall the sound of that multitude as they dropped, and how it shook the very foundations of the city.  I knew it would be no easy task to destroy Rehorusteb, but I made my oath all the same.

My next trip through oblivion seemed to last for an eternity, but when next I took form and place, I was back home, taking a vacation from my endeavours in Mulhorand and the purple dust of Raurin.  I was in the same office as my first vision, but it was 2035 MC, and father was not himself.  A slave was in a pair of the manacles that decorate the eastern wall of the chambre, and I could see that he had been through some intense questioning.  My father himself held a whip in his hand and his shirt was off.  I watched the impressive rolling muscles of his scaly back as he worked the whip across the slave for a few cruel strokes.  When he turned away from the slave, and towards me, I could see his face was frustrated.  I was not familiar with any expression beyond the flat and level calm that he had always worn before.  He grabbed me by the hair and dragged me across the room to the slave, and stuck my head right into bleeding chest of the slave.  I could see a gore-smattered tattoo of a five-headed dragon, crudely inked in a variety of colours.  My father said “Look upon it, Chadrazzan; the sign of our worst enemy!”

That memory vision faded and I was again untethered in the void, now struggling with my own half intact memories.  Each of these memories, if they really were such, lead to dozens of other memories that I have not thought about since the Spell Plague, and it felt as though my thoughts and memories were falling inside my head; I could glimpse them, and hold them for a moment, but then they were out of my reach.

In my final vision, I was running through an alleyway in Messemprar, the Purple City.  I was with a group of conspirators, and we were running for all we were worth though the filth-strewn alley of that once great city.  There were sounds of rioting behind us, and a great fire illumed the twilight sky to make it seem like day, and I knew that fire was in the temple of Horus-Re, where Pharaoh lay dead, his body now a charred husk, if anything of it remained.  We had to jump over several emaciated corpses, victims of the Echo Plague which provided the opportunity we needed to do our job.  We came to a convoluted intersection; it was a small courtyard of purple mud brick, and alleys branched off in every direction, and several small sets of stairs led both up and down, and our group stopped to take it in.  “That’s it for me, brothers” I was saying between heaving breaths.  “I guess I’ve seen the last of Mulhorand for this life.”  Many of us exchanged brief embraces, and we all ran our separate ways.  I was headed back home to begin my time as Kossurian.  It was 2091 MC.

I did not return to a drifting void this time.  Still running through the alleys of the Purple city, I found myself in a body-strewn passage, and while in mid-jump over the emaciated bodies of a family, I was tripped up by one little foot, and landed amidst the bodies.  I grabbed hold of the wrist of a small boy, and then I heard him talking.  “Captain!  Captain!  Time to get up!”  It was Tyriol, and as I shook the dreams from my mind and opened my eyes, I found myself sitting up in the chair, grasping his arm firmly as he made a queer face and wriggled free of my grip.

I looked out of a small window to the west, and saw the sun beginning its descent.  It was time to put the muddled memories to the side, and go hunting Barthas.
