'''15 Mirtul'''

We have finally arrived back at the Monastery, after two days below ground. We are a more seasoned lot, now, and no mistake. The last thirty-six hours have been most harrowing.

We began on the morning of the 14th by entering the Broken Tower again, to find the Waterdhavians, who we now know are called the ‘Mercy Killers’, done their work and gone. The alabaster pillar is gone, as are our enemies, though their ranks seem to have been bolstered (more on that, later). We had decided that we would seek a route into the Sceptre Tower vis passage deep into the ruins, and from there back up into the tower that we suspected (and now know) holds the Lady Saharel.

We indeed found a rubble-choked spiral stairway down from the great chambre in which we encountered the Mercy Killers yesterday (I wish we had never learned the name of this group of villains; now my own cadre feels we need to have some sort of title, though I patently refuse to participate in this; names are just a way of attracting undue attention). It took Baird, Mattrick and Lucretius about 4 hours to clear the rubble from the seemingly purpose-choked passage, and I marveled at both their strength and indefatigueable stamina.

Below, we found a network of Netherese Crypts that held a variety of undead threats that we were able to destroy with little difficulty. One room had some zombies with wings that detonated with great satisfaction when I engaged them, and one nasty, ichor-slinging creature that I was also able to destroy without even hastening my breath. After clearing these creatures out, we uncovered some small amount of treasure, and most notably, a beautiful magic Orb of some small power that I will certainly find useful.

The Orb is called an ''Orb of Debilitating Langour'', and it is an old Netherese thing that will be most useful in maintaining some of my debilitating spells (it in fact already has), but the thing also makes my blood surge just a bit when I hold it and focus. Having the thing in hand reminds me of when I first learned to Practice, and my old Mentor, Galdread, would stand behind me and offer his threatening encouragement for my learning. That same feeling of both power and impending punishment on the back of my neck drives my blood to bolster my magic, and I have already witnessed how the Orb helps my Fire to burn hotter, and my Missiles to fly truer.

At the end of the Netherese Crypt, we found some sort of ancient and defunct elevator, with exposed and damaged gears. I wondered at the origin of this mechanical contraption; I wasn’t aware of the Netherese using such base machines, but perhaps some insane wizard had a gnome for a pet, and let him loose with some cogs and hammers in this tomb some thousands of years ago. At any rate, the pup suggested, or maybe it was the halfling, that there appeared to be some lever or something missing from the crude thing, and he (I know this speculation was the pup’s) jumped to the insane conclusion that it was hidden in the kobold warrens. Luckily for us, Kethoth saw our direction clearly, and it was not through kobold warrens, or by way of magic beans and giants in the clouds. No; Kethoth knew that there would be a passage beneath that elevator, and that the easiest way down was through the floor of the thing.

We had to head back out to the Monastery to retrieve a chest packed full of excavation gear that I had purchased on the skinny-mayor’s account. This is heavy gear that is best left at base-camp until needed, but I’m glad I brought it. Never head to ruins without picks, shovels, rope, chain and block-and tackle, I always say. If not for this foresight on the Isle of the Litch, so many decades ago, we would not have escaped with a quartet of solid gold statues the size of Lucretius.

So with some more hard labour on the part of our muscled companions, we had a hole cut in the elevator’s stone floor, and we were soon climbing down a rope ladder to the next level below, which was over 100’ down. The opening that we found in the ancient elevator shaft, lead us into a very long and twisting passage that terminated in a strange room with a magical field and some animated statues. The centrepiece to the room was an altar with yet another alabaster pillar perched upon it. Approaching the suspicious pillar (which I now have filed under ‘ubiquitous’), the four alabaster statues came to life, and these things proved to be the biggest challenge to my henchmen to that point. It took us more than a little effort to smash the things to bits, but I am glad of the learning experience. We are learning to function as a group more with every challenge.

Beyond the room, and the mysterious magical field which we avoided all together, was a passage going in both directions from the end of the room, which had the bearing of a sewer or subterranean aqueduct. There was a boat there that held all of our company, plus the alabaster pillar, and we set off downstream, after spending several hours resting and licking our wounds.

Now, in hindsight, it might have been foolish to head down stream in that boat, with little to guide us; we knew not where we were going, or how we would have gotten out of trouble if we found it, but Set guided us properly and nearer to our goal. We began, after some hundreds of yards of travel, to pass by some grates in the floor above us, likely for the drainage of some ancient rooms above. We were unable to gain entry to those rooms by the small openings, and continued on.

In the end, we came to an odd room of generous proportions. It was some sort of junction-room for the old channels, and the crisscrossing channels divided the large room into tall stone blocks with a vaulted ceiling above, and upon the blocks were many bones, and some few animated undead that were unremarkable and of no obstacle. We mounted the blocks, which found us some twenty feet above the level of the channel, and worked our way back to an old passage that lead to a vampire.


== Barthas ==


I guess I could have built up to this encounter, but to record it honestly, the whole thing happened rather like a ride on a runaway mustang. It was fast, violent, and seemingly out of my control.

We entered the room of the creature we would come to know as Barthas, and found him sitting in a suitably decoured room full of draining tables, jars of gore, and an iron throne perched upon a stack of coffins, and Barthas upon it all. He wore a conspicuous holy symbol of Orcus around his neck, and I am proud to report that Baird showed not a moment’s hesitation in his assault upon that most terrible violation of his God’s sense of Order in the world. Truthfully, while I have cavorted with a variety of evils in this life, and am now more predisposed to diplomacy than ever before, I can’t abide a vampire. My near-death experience with Baron Maskill in the Moonshaes over a century ago is never far from my thoughts, especially while I am crawling around underground, and especially when I am faced with one of his kin, sitting atop a pile of coffins.

It was Baird who was in the room first, which is our usual course of business; he’s a sturdy fellow who I’m happy to have in the lead. He was invoking prayers and curses and slinging radiant assaults upon Barthas before I even set foot in the room. Slowly we made our assault into the room, and it went well. The monster ran about the walls of the room in the showy fashion of such garish beasts, attacking us from range. He managed to bring Baird under his control, much like Maskil did to Breanen, but this time I had the answer to this problem; I put Baird to sleep, hoping that when he awoke from my evocation, that his head would be clear. It was.

I should say that Barthas didn’t stay up on his wall too long, and too bad, too; I was clearly winning our exchange of ranged assaults. Rather, though, our lovely Eladrin, Aryaluystrinne, pulled him off the wall with her dynamic magics, and brought him into the midst of our brawn. Barthas had a bad time in the middle of that group; our fighters took piece after piece off of his cold hide, despite the deadly counter-assault that he provided. Barthas also summoned clouds of negative energy to drain our fighters, but Miss Miratar was able to move the creature about the room with some effort, and our fighters followed it around like a merciless pack of wolves.

At one point, our hearts sank. A great steel door down a long passage opened up, and a large group of vampiric minions swarmed towards us. I played it bravely afterwards, saying “Kethoth knew no fear; I filled that hall so full of flame that a salamander wouldn’t have gotten through, much less a lowly undead slave”, but I was terrified. I remembered our battle in the upper levels of Maskil’s tomb, and how three of his minions nearly cashed us in, and this time, eight of the toothy devils were bearing down on us. But it is a credit to that Orb, and partly to my own surging blood, that we made it through. When I first espied those monsters, I knew I must act immediately. It has become my job to hurl fire indiscriminately at groups of foes, and this was probably the most dire need of my talent. I was terrified, but I could feel that low, deep song in my blood; Set’s calming voice in my pulse, and I closed my eyes, clenched my teeth, and let the blood surge, and the flames followed.

In the end, the hall was full of the ashen remains of all but two of those monsters; I had somehow missed two of them, but between my Missiles and the pup’s arrows, those two had a short-lived career in their master’s lair.

When I turned my focus again on the battle raging with Barthas in the room, I noticed that the halfling was hiding in a corner, looking like he had one foot in the afterlife, and many of the other fighters looked pale and panicked. However, none looked so panicked as Barthas, who saw that his help was destroyed, and he again had two more foes focused on him. The slippery monster presently turned to mist, and despite our best efforts, we could not contain it.

Barthas slipped away, to the rage of all, but none were so enraged as Baird. Baird has not stopped grumbling about the escape of the creature ever since.

Our battle with Barthas was our most trying challenge, and it nearly left some of us dead. How that wretched little halfling is still drawing breath is beyond me. They are harder than cats to kill, those bothersome diminutive thieves. I know that I spent every last bit of arcane energy that I had in that fight. If I had to throw one more Missile, I am sure it would have made me black out. The others were all equally spent, but our elation at routing the vampire, and Baird’s rage at not being able to destroy it utterly, fueled our next actions.

We managed to dig our way to the creature’s lair, which was in another rubble-choked tunnel through which the thing could enter in its misty form, but which took us hours to access. In the end, we did not find Barthas asleep in his lair, but we did find a notable pile of treasure, including some magic weapons and things that we have put to good use.

Barthas’ room we turned into a mess. We dragged his notable iron throne out of his chambre, and back towards the aqueduct that delivered us here, and sunk the thing in the channel. We smashed up every jar and coffin in the place, and desecrated his sleeping-lair. Though I am sure we have done little to hinder the creature, we will certainly draw its ire. Were I Barthas, I would be most enraged at the indignities that we have inflicted upon him, and I would be hunting us down. And so it was that we made our way from his lair as soon as our vandalisms were complete. All of us needed a rest, being fully spent after our battle with Barthas, but it would have been unwise to linger; Barthas would be at full strength again in a fraction of the time it would take us to gather ourselves, and so we set off.

== The Temple of Orcus ==


We had but two choices for our direction; we could have gone back to the junction room and sought out another way out, or we could head up to the iron door from which Barthas’ minions issued. I decided that the surest way out of here was through that door, and I was right.

With some effort, we pried open the nasty, spike-covered doors, and found ourselves in a smoke-filled temple of Orcus. The room was large and fascinating; there were braziers that issued forth a vapour that my henchmen found noxious and debilitating, but I found the sulphuric odour pleasing and soothing.

The room had several stone pews, and a great pair of altars upon which were the two latest victims of the coven; a pair of twin human women who had been recently killed and dined upon by the monsters. I actually pitied the lovely creatures; their curly brown hair was thick and shiny, and they would probably have turned my head in life. I decided that it would be best if we destroyed these unfortunate victims as though they might be infected; so I decapitated them, and we burned the bodies. As I held the first woman’s head, I ran my fingers through her hair, and felt the silky sensation of healthy young hair, and it sent a shiver up my arm. “Gruesome and unfortunate business, this” I explained to Baird and Mattrick, who were watching my every move, and made curious expressions at my response to the touch of the decapitated woman’s hair.

Things in the temple got even more interesting, though. A cabinet door was found in one of the stone altars, and inside we found some small amount of loot, but also a bag with some ritualistic implements inside; there was a sacrificial dagger and a holy symbol of Orcus that radiates magic. I pocketed both of these things, explaining that I would dispose of them at the earliest possible opportunity. I’m not really sure what I have planned for the unholy symbol, but it is of some value to someone, and I hope to realize that value. We’ll see what happens. The other notable things found in the cabinet were a pair of alabaster cards, which we would later learn were parts of a puzzle that fit into the very claw-shaped carving in the doors of the Sceptre Tower which ensconce both a treasure room, and the Lady Saharel, but more on those later.

At any rate, the pair of altars also each had a pair of large iron knobs on them, which turned out to be the hilts of swords that are sheathed in the stone, which the huge four-armed skeletal behemoth that lives beneath the floor of the temple uses when summoned, which we in fact did much by mistake. Baird was fiddling about with the knobs, and began to draw one out, which had the effect of opening the floor and summoning up the dragon-skull-headed undead construct, which must be thirty or fourty feet tall. As the opening in the floor grew, and the construct was elevated into the room foot-by-foot, we realized it was time to get going again. By this time, our fatigue was starting to show. We were getting tired and careless, and our disorganized ransacking of the room nearly found us separated by the huge construct, but we managed to get out as a group, in one piece.


== Exodus Tractus ==


We ventured upwards and upwards, through a variety of the expected sort of rooms; trap-laden inconveniences that are easy enough to navigate when one is rested and sure, but prove to be frustrating and befuddling when one is tired, wounded, and just trying desperately to escape the warrens of an undead super-predator.

Eventually we found ourselves facing off against a host of ettercaps and huge spiders. We came to a room beyond a T-intersection, and our van was checked by the webs and antics of the spiders in the room beyond, while our rear was set upon by a flanking host of ettercaps that attacked us from the T-intersection. What happened in the van I am unsure of, and I didn’t give anyone a hard time given our unanimous state of exhaustion, but in the rear, we were able to hold off those five monsters with little effort.

Mattrick and Lucretius stood shoulder-to-shoulder, and held the ettercaps back, and I was able to bath them in a constant and murderous fire, that my new Orb so enhanced, that at one point it was glowing red-hot, and its warm touch was both comforting and empowering. After I had seared those monsters to a certain degree, I yelled out in the Goblin tongue, demanding that they submit or be utterly incinerated by me. They broke and routed immediately, and we then went up the hall to destroy the monsters that checked the advance of the rest of the party at the door.

When we started fighting our way into the web-strewn room, we found a large hobgoblin shaman conducting the efforts of our foes, and this creature had the sense to flee when it saw us come through the door, though flight from us is a difficult prospect, unless of course you are a vampire lord. We chased the thing down mercilessly, and killed it. With the room secured, we managed to find two more alabaster key pieces, and we continued on, even more exhausted than before.

Our way led ever up, and we did not have to go far beyond the webby room, and up few stairs, before we found the five ettercaps that I had routed, and the other half dozen creatures that came to support them. Exhausted and carelessly we entered a room full of ettercaps and another damnable shaman, and I thought then that we must loose some of our party. The fight was desperate; though half of the ettercaps in the room had been horribly burned by me a few minutes earlier, we were all in rougher shape, and the new foes bolstering their ranks made things seem dire indeed.

To this day I can’t tell you how we came out of that fight without loosing any of our number; we were surrounded and flanked almost immediately, and some of our fighters hit the ground from the relentless assault, but in the end, we carved our way desperately through our foes, and the last of them routed out of the room, where we foolishly followed, and found ourselves in a fight more desperate than the last.

I guess if we had been more composed, well rested and clear headed, we would not have put those fleeing ettercaps to the chase, but we did, and that brought us ever nearer to loss. We chased them to the next room, up the next flight of stairs, and right into a waiting group of goblins, another damnable shaman, and a large and vicious bugbear that handled Mattrick as though he was a kitten to be strangled by a blacksmith. Where my companions found the reserves needed to fight back against this final wave of foes I do not know. Most of them can’t even tell me where they found the strength to swing a blade one more time, but they did, and we each owe a blood debt to every other person in our party on account of the peerless heroism of that protracted exodus from the depths of the Netherese ruin. When the last sweep of a blade was made, each of our foes was dead on the ground, and each of us was alive on our feet, though we started half-dead several fights previous.

As we took stock of ourselves, our dead foes, and the room that we had chased them to, we noticed the laid-stone and vaulted ceilings of our surroundings; they mirrored exactly the dimensions and construction of the lower chambre of the Broken Tower. We had finally arrived in the basement of the Sceptre Tower.