At length, we found ourselves back in the taproom. We were exhausted and in a very bloody and soaking unpresentable state, but the residents and guests of the Inn gathered around us for stories. I withdrew from the crowd to watch it from a distance. I sat at the bar, talking with Allendy, who would now share some of his time, short on this plane though it is, with this devil. I presented him with a book of alchemical recipes that I had plundered from the Mercykillers’ camp. I really have no use for alchemy and the scheming and dirty fingernails that seem to accompany those who practice this crude branch of magic. Allendy seemed quite grateful, however, and offered an open welcome to me here, whenever and how often I wish. I also managed to learn from him that they had seen my mouth-watering Shadovar flesh-slave head west. No surprise there, really.

As I sat back and watched and half listened to the throng about my company, they all went quiet, and that silence was broken by the tremulous and uncertain voice of Tyriol, who sang a song that he remembered from his youth. It was called “The Grey, The Black and The Bold”, and it came up because they had been spilling details of our business, and the answer that the Lady gave to Mattrick about the Monastery of Sundered Faith made some listener mention the song, which triggered the pup’s memory.

This song is significant for a number of reasons. It is about the heroic deeds of some ‘heroes’ at the very monastery that the ghost had mentioned. These heroes were the fool-knight Maturin Horgath, the melancholic Gaebril Tremalkin, the corpulent Boregar the ‘Wanderer’, and the cock-sure Arkos Thunderstaff. Long after I last saw these chaps they embarked upon some vacation in the mountains and ran afoul some demons or some such. It is also worth noting that they fought with some orcs from the Red Hand of Doom tribe. This is not the first time we have heard this name, of course.

I was paralyzed with wonder and shock when I heard the pup’s crepitations, and I cursed when I realized he had just sung aloud our next destination to a large crowd, but at least we knew what direction we would be heading in.

It is nearly 5:00 AM, and time to get the sodden troops out of whatever beds they fell in. There is much to do today. Today, we are going to hunt for Barthas.

Damn this rain.

==22 Mirtul==

I find myself writing a couple hours before dawn again. Everyone is asleep, but I find myself unable to sleep a wink, I’m so full of rage.

Not long after I put my pen down yesterday morning, and set about mustering the troops, Chara found me and said I had visitors in the garden. “This can’t be good,” thinks I. I decided I had better get all my men together before meeting these visitors. The Inn is supposed to be a sanctuary, but one can’t be too careful.

In the garden we found a pair of visitors and a pair of plant creatures with them. Their leader was a druid named Ghedorh Furrowford, and he had a Mr. Volund Heimdall with him, as well as the two aberrations. They seemed peaceful enough, if not a little uncomfortable by being surrounded by bricks and mortar and civilization. I will state presently that I have never enjoyed the company of druids, or any of those other nature-worshiping types. I think the closest thing I ever had to a friend of one of these was Brenan Dale. That man at least understood freedom. I could tell by the cheerless expressions on the faces of this lot that I was dealing with the we-all-have-a-greater-responsibility crowd. Despite that, I put on my most benign smile, and approached with my hand out.

“Kethoth Sepret, at your service, gentlemen!” My proffered hand was not taken. The grimmest face in the pack, that of Ghedorh, replied.

“I know who you are, fire starter. I have come here to make unreasonable demands on you and your witless company” he said, or something to that effect.

Here is the crux of what this dour-faced ill-smelling druid was on about. He claims that the fires we started to defend ourselves with several days ago in the Smear caused such a disturbance that a bunch of hobgoblins and other nasty creatures were displaced, and have joined up with the Red Hand of Doom to make an army the size of which threatens the Grey Vale and the mountains surrounding it. In particular, a large host seems to be in the mountains on the north side of the vale, and they might even threaten Loudwater. He claimed that the Cerulean Circle demanded that we set things right, and head to that area to lend a hand.

Ghedorh took pains to explain the mountains and the area that was threatened, and I played dumb, but I know the area well. I spent years on that side of the Vale picking at the small settlements of homesteaders and other fools that try to carve out a bleak existence up there. However, my acting was too good.

“That’s right where we’re headed anyway, Captain!” Tyriol said triumphantly. I cringed on the inside, aghast that he had just tipped our hand, but I decided to play it up a bit still.

“Tyriol, even if it were on the other side of Anauroch, we would be bound to help those we may have put in harm’s way. Good druid,” I said with a deep bow, “If what you say is true, and that I may be responsible for putting innocent lives in danger, and upsetting the sacrosanct balance of nature, then I will most certainly pursue this errand with all the vigour that is mine to lend. Wish me luck!”

“I’ll wish you gone, and in a hurry, fire starter. Volund goes with you to see that you do not stray from this task.”

I am going to roast Ghedorh over the flames of his children if he has any. Anyway, Volund seems like a good replacement, and just now, we need the help.

So, the druid departed with his plant-slaves, and we tarried a day longer in Spellgard, against the bitter complaints of Volund, who insisted that we had to leave right away. I explained that we had a vampire on the loose here, and that we would see it destroyed before we depart, and he grudgingly agreed that we had more than one mess to clean up. He’s spot on.

We did poke around in the catacombs all day, and turned up no sign of Barthas. This entire ruin now seems lifeless and profitless, and we are packing our things to leave. Tomorrow we are headed for the mountains.
