1479, 1st of Mirtul

It has been some time since I put my thoughts down in this well-worn journal. When my brother and I set forth on this journey I was determined to chronicle the entire passing from our homeland to Saharelgard and then back.

The journey has taken far longer than either of us expected and I must admit that my initial desire to write in this daily has been sapped by the long journey. Indeed it took patience and guidance from the Grey Lord, himself to bring us to Loudwater. As we drew closer to Loudwater and possibly the last stage of our journey before moving onto Saharelgard, both Baird and I found our optimism increasing and with that, our pace matched our heightened morale and there was little time to write in the journal as we pushed to get to Loudwater as quickly as possible.

Loudwater is a typical settlement that I imagine you could find anywhere in the realms that resides close to a place such as Saharelgard. There is opportunity as well as new people to find and Baird and I had only been in Loudwater for half a day when we encountered a tiefling of all things.

I come from a land that if you don't look human or elven, then chances are you're an enemy so being approached by this tiefling; one Kethoth Sepret was unsettling but having Baird close by with his unwavering focus on the task we have been given allowed me to exercise the patience to hear out the offer the tiefling wished to make.

It turned out our destinations were the same although I already have misgivings about the fact that our goals might be as different from Sepret's goals as our appearances are from his own. Perhaps if he was a rampaging or ill-spoken buffoon, I would feel of greater comfort around him but as it is he is quick with a smile and slippery words with which to smooth over most misunderstandings; something I believe he is involved with quite often.

No matter my misgivings about the being that has hired us to accompany him to Saharelgard, he came with a number of hardy individuals in tow and no small amount of coin with which to get us started. A dragonborn who seems as doughty as Baird, an unseemly halfling, an awkward but well-meaning (and very young) half-elf, and an eladrin whose beauty reminds me of the first rays of sunlight breaking through the murk and mire of the Umber Marsh after a desperate night on the Watchwall. It is an unusual fellowship to conclude our journey to Loudwater with and moreso to embark upon this next stage of our task but we are seven strong and although my heart warns me against the slippery Kethoth Sepret he seems to be slippery and nothing more. I'm allowing my history of being tormented and warred upon by mages to poison my perception of this being. I can only hope and will continue to entreat the Grey Lord for patience, tolerance and wisdom to fulfill the requirements of the task put upon us to ensure that we have a homeland to go return to at the conclusion of this task.

I am retiring for the evening as it seems we will be gathering supplies and mounts on the morrow to begin the final stage of our journey to Saharelgard. Although I am currently grouped with a strange collection of individuals I find myself heartened to know that our goal might very well be reached in less than a tenday.

Above all, my brother and charge is safe and Kelemvor continues to bless me with his strength and good sense.

Honour to the dead.

Brother Mattrick Lychaeus, Voice of the Grey Lord
