right
It is the middle of Hammer, 1479 DR, and the small village of Unthmalek, seen from the sky, from the perspective of a bird, if you like, is but a small clearing in the vast Glimmerwood that stretches on for countless miles, choking the valleys created by parallel mountain ranges in this sparsely-populated area on the fringe of Luruar.
 
The world is covered in snow, but the Glimmerwood is a hearty forest of pines that breaks up the sheets of white with an emerald green, to the benefit of the bird’s perspective.
 
Looking down, you can see that there is a rabble of people moving north along a narrow and unmaintained wagon-trail that follows the Redrun River. The trail is leading the rabble, who move in fits and starts, towards the thin palisade that separates the road from the village. While the road ends at the palisade, the river continues.     
 
There is smoke coming from a dozen huts in this village. And what’s this? There is a great plume of smoke coming from the large, central building. There is so much smoke that something must be going on in there, or else why waste so much precious fuel on such a bitter-cold day? The smoke makes it hard for a bird to see, in fact…         
 
If you were to take a closer look, and if you were a bird, you could swoop down, just above the tree-tops which are slightly above the thatched roofs of the crude buildings of this small, crude village. It is cold; the humans are twice their size in furs, and still they shiver, especially the ones on the palisade walls, the ones recoiling from the refreshing winds that fill our wings and bring us to soar at whatever height we desire.   
 
And who are these people coming up the road towards them? Not a warband, surely! All of the men would be on the walls, rather than in that great hall behind us, making so much noise! No, look; they are a dozen starving wretches who seem to have lost most of their clothes! They have no thick jackets. They have hardly any weapons. Some are carrying tattered banners on crooked poles of pine. What could they say?               
 
The one in the front, the woman leading them, she’s shouting at us! Whatever is she saying? She has no shoes! She must be mad.       
 
What is all this going on behind us, anyway? If we wheel around, we can have a look at the great hall, where most of the people must be. It is loud and it stinks. If you look over there, on the other side of the building…let’s fly through this accursed smoke and see…there are another dozen men shivering at the doors, waiting, I suppose for the wretches that are just now getting to the palisade.       
 
Let us soar through this smoke once more, and nest inside, in the rafters of that hall. It is delightfully warm in there, if you can stand the smell. And once the humans eat enough, they will fall over or go home, and we will descend to eat the feasts they leave behind. And, if we are lucky, and I know we shall be, there will be a sleeping woman, probably with a smelly brute on top of her, and we will pluck the jewels from her ears. We will make off with her shiny rocks, and our nest will be prettier than her neck!         
 
The smoky flight was worth the trouble, wasn’t it? Didn’t I say it would be?! Look below; the place is as full as I’ve ever seen! There are men from every cabin within five miles here, and some strange men I’ve never seen before.       
 
Let’s watch!
 
XXXXXXXXXXXXX
 
Inside the Great Hall of Unthmalek there is but one room; a hundred or more feet long, about half that wide, and with a soaring ceiling of pine timbers that are many times the height of a man overhead. In the centre is a huge ring of stones that contain a prodigious fire that is casting warmth into even the draftiest corners of the room. There is a single set of large double doors at one long end, and small windows, all placed high over head, which allow little light.        
 
Milling about in the room tonight is nearly every free man and woman within a league. The Great Man of this village is named Eberarsk Halfunther. He appears to be the oldest man in the building, at perhaps 50 winters, and was no doubt one of the biggest, in his day. His day is past, though; the hobbles about with the agony of a lifetime of hard labour and hard battles, and there isn’t a limb that has escaped the decades of punishment to ease him.          
 
Halfunther has summoned all those that recognize him to his hall, to discuss recent events. The recent events are mostly nothing new; the Many Arrows to the north and west have always been a problem. The men kill some of them, they kill some of the men, and so on and so forth over many long decades now. The men of Unthmalek actually enjoy the perpetual conflict; they are northmen, mostly descended from the nearby Untheric people. They are large, lusty and violent, and don’t mind loosing the odd cousin, if they get to kill a few orcs every year.         
 
But there is a new development. There are two in fact, and one precedes the other.   

The first is this; that a monster styled the ‘Mound King’, who is reported to be some sort of Plague-Changed wight, is leading a well-organized and ruthless campaign against the neighbouring village, Unthelmere. This is bad news, as many young women here were stolen from Unthelmere over the years, and many young women in Unthelmere were stolen from Unthmalek. Even though some might not have been seen for years, their mothers still weep at the news of their peril, and their fathers and brothers are inclined to take up arms and oaths.        
 
The second development is this; that a former victim of, now crusader against, the Mound King, a woman styled Azalia Once-Dead, is on her way to Unthmalek with a retinue of followers. In fact, news of her impending arrival is being delivered to Halfunther presently.
 
Standing before Halfunther, gesticulating wildly and talking loudly and rapidly, is a small fellow; perhaps 15 years old, and probably small for his age anyway. He is dressed only in rags, and it is clear to see that he has terrible frost-bite on most of his extremities. Fortunately, he does not have as many extremities to trouble him as he should; he is missing one arm, but his lone arm is making up for its missing companion with the frantic tempo of its wild gesturing. This young man looks as though he was just spit out by a dragon; his face is covered in a variety of terrible scars, and his one good arm looks as though a mob of monsters tried to dine upon it. In fact, a mob of monsters did try to dine upon it.         
 
From one corner of interest, it is hard to hear what is being said. In this corner sit the men unfamiliar to the ravens in the rafters that are currently looking down upon them, cawing in protest at the noise of the place, the smoke, and the small boy who is inaccurately throwing stones at them.   
 
There are two men sitting on stools in this corner, and most of the locals are giving them a wide berth. This is amusing to the ravens, who can see that these men are smaller, are clearly not warriors, and clearly do not smell as bad as everyone else around them. These two men are well dressed, and well learned.     
 
The first man is Micheleskin Downover. He is wearing the smart habit of a priest of Selune; a crisp black robe, trimmed in silver fur, and a glorious silver chain and conspicuous silver symbol of his chosen deity. Surely the ravens are eyeing this man up and saying to themselves “Look at those brocaded vestments, those lovely shining links, that peerless radiant broach! How sumptuous!” Brother Downover is from Sundabar, and his youth does not match his position, though perhaps we shall see what quality he does have to endorse such a commission.            
 
The second man is Recluvian Dorset. He is wearing the fine, warm jacket of a well-to-do city dweller, and despite the heat coming from the blindingly-hot fire only yards away, he is still in his dark jacket, fox-fur gloves, over-sized fur hat, and oversized fur-lined boots, the comic appearance of which betray the fact that Recluvian has been in this climate before, and knows to wear something pragmatic on the head and feet. “His feet must be as warm as black feathers in the summer sun” his admirers in the rafters are no-doubt saying. “And his brass buttons, my how fetching they are. I bet brass that rich never feels cold to touch!” Mr. Dorset is a man of middle years but advanced knowledge. He is a scholar from Silverymoon, and his position would, it could be supposed, be beneath this remote assignment. All the same, here he is, listening to Brother Downover.               
 
“What do you think they’re talking about, Dorset?” asks the younger man of the older. Brother Downover is staring intently at the conversation on the other side of the room, as though intensifying his gaze might also improve his hearing. It is not working. Through the din of the fire, drinking and boasting men, and cawing ravens in the rafters, he can’t hear a word of this conversation.       
 
“Do you see anyone else in this room focusing on those two?” says the older man, in between puffs of noxious smoke from a short black pipe. “No, you do not. These people do not respect ‘messengers’. They do not listen to anyone besides a headman or a man with a weapon and a threat. The others will be here soon, and then we shall see what happens. In the mean time, I wanted your professional opinion on our common subject matter, young priest...”           
 
“Yes, well, I guess you would know more about these savages than me.” Downover adjusts his chain and symbol of office to reassure himself that he is more than a ‘young priest’, before he continues, a hint of indignation in his voice. “This Azalia, or whatever her name really is, is nothing more than a heretical witch. She is at-best, delusional, but at-worst, a creature of shadow posing as something much less malign. She claims to be the agent of some obscure power called ‘The Raven Queen’, a name that is as obscure as it is unimaginative.” A silent snarl plays out across the young priest’s unkind face, and quickly turns to a mocking smile, as his hands playfully mock bird wings a-flutter. His pantomime going unappreciated, and really, unnoticed, he puts his hands back in his pockets, and makes an angry noise in his throat.             
 
“I wouldn’t be so quick to indict her, Downover” the older man says, looking sidelong at his companion through an ever-thickening cloud of pipe smoke. “I was sent here to do the same thing as you. Observe and report. We haven’t even seen her yet.”          
 
“I don’t need to see dog shit to know I’ve stepped in it, professor” this last word dripping with venom. “I can smell it, and I smell it now.”   
 
“Can you indeed? Have you considered that she might be some aspect of Mystra? She wields arcane power, certainly.”   
 
“Shar too wields the arcane; shadow is part of this infection of the arcane you have mentioned.”
 
A silent chuckle and a long puff of smoke. Off to the side, an errant rock has fallen on someone’s head, and the small boy previously engaged in assaulting the ravens is now engaged with fleeing a beating from an irate barbarian woman.   
 
The priest continues, after nothing but smoke and silence from the scholar. “I would, hesitantly, say that there could possibly be some involvement of Kelemvor here. However, I strongly doubt that. Kelemvor is not in the business of raising the dead, imbuing his revenants with powers that this witch is rumoured to possess, and then letting them wander the country-side declaring themselves the servant of some other, clearly heretical, deity or power. No, we can rule out Kelemvor’s direct involvement, if not his ire, in this assignment.”         
 
A nod from the scholar, and more smoke.
 
The young man lets out a long and frustrated breath. “I have also considered” he says as more of an accusation than an explanation, “that this woman might be imbued with some heretofore unknown Primordial. She is said to be immune to the cold, and one report has her commanding the frozen elements. Still, Primordials, although largely not understood, do not have power of life and death.”       
 
“Hmmph.” Nod, puff.   
 
“So we can rule that out.”
 
“Which leaves us with...”
 
“Shar. Our enemy.”   
 
“You’ve said that already. Ah, look! Our ranger has made it!”     
 
The doors at the end of the hall open, and with the anxiety about the visitor that is coming, and the report of a new arrival made by the gusting snow and frigid winds, all eyes take in the door, but are just as quickly disengaged. A man has come through the door, and he does not look like the flagellant they are expecting. He is a man of the wilds, and though not of the local variety of Untheric bulk, his face is familiar to enough people in this hall that only a few sets of eyes linger on him, and those only for a moment.     
 
This man is Waldrick Woldenmore, and he is a ranger from Everlund. He wears sensible winter clothes; thick bear-skins and properly-tied boots. His hands are in thick fur mittens which he is presently taking off and stowing in pockets that would not have been seen for the thick fur of his coat. “Black, shiny, warm and sensible, those luxurious furs” the ravens are no doubt saying, as they mark his deliberate progress through the crowd to the table with the other two foreigners. His black fur hat off, a golden hoop is revealed in one ear that makes both birds issue a silent and wide-eyed caw of pure covetousness.         
 
The scholar and the priest both stand to greet their friend, who then pulls a stool in close, the three of them gathering close to share words.
 
“She’s here” says Waldrick, through a bushy red beard and moustache.    
 
“And...let’s hear it, ranger” snaps the priest.
 
“Well” the ranger begins, pausing to chew his lower lip while he looks for this thoughts. “I didn’t see anything that conflicted with Jacobus’ report; she’s a witch, sure. She seems to command arcane energies, especially those tied to ice and death. She’s...”       
 
After a long pause, the scholar puts his hand on his friend’s shoulder, and asks “What of Meridian’s report?” The priest sits up straight, and seems to tense up, taking in an audible breath.   
 
“Meridian was wrong” says the ranger. With this, the priest throws up his hands and makes a frustrated guttural sound. “Meridian was wrong” the ranger repeats in a conciliatory manner. “I saw the woman heal men that had wounds that should have killed them. She healed a disembowelled man that was dying on the ground; one touch, and he was back up fighting. She also tends to the sick in the fashion of the itinerant monks of old.”           
 
“Well,” snarls Brother Downover “What of this ice and death magic, then? If she is, like you say, a witch, then she has a pact. And if she has a pact with something that grants power of ice and death, domains that are clearly shadows of the domains of warmth and life...”     
 
“Hold on, friend” Dorset interrupts. “Let’s not confuse the matter with theological semantics. Death is not the ‘shadow’ of life. You are grasping, friend, and it does not suit you. Domain of ‘warmth’? Let us stick to the facts; she channels arcane without any formal training in wizardry; this places her squarely in the phylum of warlock, or witch in her case. She can channel destructive magics, which is not uncommon at all for this phyla. She can heal as though divinely invested; this is the part that does not fit.”               
 
“No, it doesn’t” agrees Waldrick. “Especially because I observed her blasting the undead; none of her powers seem to have the effect that a proper priest.”   
 
“That is because she is not a priestess, but a heretical lunatic!” Downover is red in the face now. “Maybe my words can’t convince you, but I’ll make you all a deal; she will be here soon, and she will begin her dirty proselytizing. Listen to her words and observe her deportment; if she seems fit to be at liberty after you have bore witness, then I will disregard Meridian, and go along with the lot of you.”     
 
The other two men look at each other, and then to their friend.    
 
“Agreed.”   
“Agreed.”
 
They are discussing other small issues, trying to build a sense of common purpose after this dispute, when the doors again erupt. The wind howls and snow fills the air for a moment, while the small host files into the great hall.   
 
By the time the chaos of the blizzard-inviting doors and the shuffling new-comers is concluded, all eyes are on the group which has become the focus of the entire hall, birds included. To narrow the focus a bit further, there is a woman standing in the hall, and she is a sight to remember. The sight of her, in fact, has caused children to scramble for their mothers, mothers to clutch the arms of their husbands, and husbands to clutch for the gods by way of medallions, bracelets and other fetishes. However, it should be noted that the younger men, those without children, are clutching for something completely different at the sight of her.       
For Azalia is a creature of peerless beauty. Even the ravens gasp in jealousy of her rich black hair. “How it shines and yet devours all light all at once! She is a goddess of soft pitch, she is!” they are most assuredly saying.     
 
As they are wont to do, the women notice her dress first; she is wearing a wedding dress that looks as though it was taken from the tomb of some unlucky bride; it is dirty with the filth of ages; the blood that once soaked it from bosom-hem to belly is now a pale rusty brown, and the skirts and train of the thing appear to have been dragged behind a team of horses for a year. It is the blood-stain on the breast of the dress that makes the women draw in breath and quietly invoke their secret matrons. They clutch their children firmly about them, as they imagine the terrible circumstances under which such a gruesome stain could cover so generous a bosom. And then they see the answer; the neck of Azalia Once-Dead has a scar a half-inch wide that encircles her pale skin like a yellowish jagged and puffy choker. How could someone have such a scar and still be walking? Perhaps this is why she is called ‘Once-Dead’.           
 
As they are wont to do, the men (that is to say, young boys, young men, old men, yet-older men) all notice her chest first. She is wearing some sort of ratty garment or something over top of the loveliest tits any of them have seen; large, round, firm. Gods above and below, why doesn’t she just take that rag from those things?! Her hair is always followed next, as the sable locks reach down and rest enviably upon the slopes of her bosom. That hair is as black as primordial pitch, made all the darker by the company it keeps; her face is as pale as the snow she has come in with, and her neck...A deep breath or a quiet whistle of disbelief announces that one man and then another has finally noticed that she carries the scar of the beheaded, if such a thing can really turn into a scar. The beheaded don’t normally form scars.           
 
Her pale face provides the contrast for both her black hair and her blue eyes. Once she looks at you, you forget about nightmare-bride-apparel and tits, for her gaze is the focus of some long-forgotten deity of intense witness. Her eyes are soul-judging-blue, and most cannot hold her gaze for more than a moment, before they turn away or look down.     
 
Looking down, one notices that her feet are likewise pale, and completely uncovered. She has marched for days through a terrible blizzard in a terrible season, and besides a bit of mud from the floor of this very hall, they are as porcelain.   
 
How old is this woman? It is impossible to say. Professor Dorset thinks perhaps 30, but how long has she been 30 is the question?       
 
How tall is she? It is impossible to say. She is the tallest woman in the room to every other woman, but once her terribly visage is broken through, and the children begin to flock about her, she is the same size as they, or so they would say. To the men, she is as tall as any man, taller than some, perhaps. Shorter than the kindest men, taller than the wicked?       
 
And how does her voice sound? Brother Downover hears the belligerent but throaty tones of a zealot. Professor Dorset hears the precise inflection of an orator trained in rhetoric. Ranger Waldrick hears his mother. Isn’t that odd?         
 
Her presence is intoxicating, and it has the varied effects of intoxication on varied personalities; many are numb and dumb, some are anxious and awkward. When she finally raises her arms to speak, it is as though the corks have been pulled from the ears, and the muddled tones of confusion are replaced by a crisp silence, awaiting the first word from her thick lips.   
 
“Death is here!”
 
Oh, that isn’t good. Children are screaming now, mothers are weeping and looking to their husbands, the husbands are grabbing their sword-hilts and looking to their elders, their elders are looking at each other and shaking their heads. In one corner, two men are grimacing while a third is waving his young finger in the air at them.     
 
“Death is here!” Louder. Like an angry clap of thunder.   
 
Silence. For the first time, many are noticing that a small retinue of shivering, pitiable people is standing behind her, and they seem to have grown to twice the height of the frightened men and women in this room; they now stand tall, and their sallow faces and shivering hands and knees look strong and proud. The small messenger moves from the side of the headman, to stand beside Azalia, who puts a hand on his shoulder.     
 
“I am here! And we will battle death together! The Raven Queen sends her messengers to guide me, and they are here!”     
 
Two birds in the rafters now become quite self-aware, as nearly every set of eyes in the place look up at them. Instinctively, they bury their heads in the plumage of their chests, and look skittishly about. This won’t do, not at all.     
 
In a remote corner, three foreigners are now standing, like everyone else, trying to get a better view of the guest. “Keep listening, damn you” says one to another.   
 
“But it is not your time to die! It is not the fate of your people to cross the Void, not today! Frost and death, shadow and fate! These are mine to use to help you! These are the gifts of the Raven Queen!”         
 
The room is enraptured with this woman, who has much to say about this Queen, a royal figure none save two in this room have heard about.
 
“That should about seal it, shouldn’t it?” A snarl.
 
“This bears reporting and further research, not a policy of action.” A puff of smoke.
 
“We should watch, and help. She is right; death is not far away. The Mound King is on the move.” A check of a blade.       
 
“Reports and help? The die is cast here. I have seen this witch, and heard her words. Something must be done about her!” An angry throaty noise.       
 
Two friends shake their heads in disbelief and frustration.
 
Two skittish birds brave the smoke and flutter out of the warmth of the great-hall, a shower of their black feathers falling like portents, soon to be picked up and made into implements of reverence and hope.
 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
 
Now that was a rare sight, wasn’t it? A pretty woman, certainly. She had plumage such as makes a crown of itself, does she not? Even in such tattered dress, and, now that I think of it, completely un-bejewelled, she seems a queen, doesn’t she? She must have been!         
 
Anyway, something doesn’t feel right, so it is time to go. Oh! I might be wrong about that. Look at the company that is joined while we have been warming our feathers! There must be scores of us. I don’t recognize that chap, or that lovely lady...           
 
What’s this commotion, now? The men on the palisade are shouting. One is throwing a spear into the woods! Another is running towards the great hall. And that one, the mad fool! He’s run to the water and is...by the winds! He’s fording that frozen river!             

Let’s circle up higher, and join our new friends, shall we? Up higher, and we’ll get a better view, anyway.   
 
Ahhh...there’s the answer to this commotion; something...no, someone is coming up the road. And there are men in the forest all about, and they look rattier than that lot with the queen. And the smell! No wonder such a host has assembled in the skies!       
 
These men that are now climbing at the walls and pulling down the gates are wafting with the aroma of a feast!
 
And who’s that striding through the gates just now? Ahh, he must be the king.
