== The Ship as She Lies ==

The hull is just over 80 feet in length with keel cutting a smooth profile in the water similar to the body of the small sprats that swim these warm waters.

The strakes of the ship up to its deep load draught are made from single pieces of wide wood rather than several smaller planks as is the usual possible construction. The wood of these planks has a very deep embossed grain as if the piece had served as driftwood for a thousand years. It gives off a slight blue-green sheen mixed with the deep brown of its lower recesses. The upper strakes are made with what must be a close cousin of duskwood. Hard as iron and light makes it the perfect material for a ship’s construction.

The bowsprit and two masts are all deep black, smooth and ungrained. They look like they were constructed from the horn of some behemoth animal, long extinct from the shores of all Toril.

Two jibs and a staysail are set from the bowsprit to the foremast, adding stability to the ship. They are also sails of great command on a side wind, and particularly when sailing close-hauled. The foremast itself is rigged with three square sales, all of which were currently furled.

From there though the ship’s rigging differs from anything ever seen before. Both lower masts had large fore-aft sails — not the lateen-rigged sails as with the caravels that are common in these waters, nor are they lugsails like the one on Lydon’s little Dinghy. Instead these sails were trapezoidal, having the foot extend further aft than the head. However, the head of the sail was attached to a spar that sloped upward with the peak higher than the throat. The foot of the sail was also attached to a boom similar to a square-rigged ship, but it could really only be said to have one clew. Between the top fore and main masts was another staysail, while the top mainsail was another one of those peculiarly rigged sails only narrower than the first and skewed at the foot as well.

Even to the untrained sailor this would be a piece of shipbuilding master-craft. Even though the rigging was strange and the lower strakes and masts were almost alien in material, the fact that this was a vessel better than millions could not be denied. But you know: it had that look that shares the best aspects of a faster new ship and a sturdy old one — that look that can only be achieved by lovingly restoring a cherished antique.

“What kind of rigging be that Gaffer?” asked Zech quizzically scratching his head.

“Hell if I know, but she had it when I hauled the bitch up. It has to be the easiest rig to sail I’ve been on. A master and his mate could sail it and still have the time to take each other’s anal virility each night.

\"And Umberlee’s tits is she fast! I have a feeling it has something to do with the lower strakes and that strange grain.

The keel and each of her ribs is made from only one futtock, but the grain of the wood follows the lines, like the tree was grown to be mad into them.

Hop aboard and I’ll give y’all a quick tour.”

== Tour of the Ship ==

Everyone climbed aboard the ship and the Gaffer started the tour.

“The topgallant forecastle deck here don’t have railings so you’d better be steady on yer feet when up there — great place for archers or to repulse boarders.

\"Follow me into the foc'sle. As you can see there are two rows of trough bunks here. I like to keep them this way so that you can squeeze a ton of crew in the beds. None of this individual bed tarasque shit for the lesser crew that stays up here.

\"Climb down the ladder here and I’ll show y’all the deck below. Same type of room at the bow as in the forecastle. This deck is mainly left open as ye can see. Good to keep extra cargo or hang hammocks if you need to. Just aft of the cabin is the hatch to the hold down below. The hold is mainly open space so we won’t go down there. There’s a small lady’s room at the stern as the saying goes cause that’s the safest part of the ship ya know.

\"Alright let’s head to the stern of the ship and check out those cabins. There’s a caboose here just before the cabins start. I like to keep the galley open to avoid traffic jams at the grub lines. There’s a good sized pantry with a cheese rack on top here.

\"Follow me into the rear cabins. Now I reckon that the officer’s will be sleeping back here. There are four small rooms on the port side and a couple bigger ones on the starboard side. I furnished each with a good captain style bed with plenty of compartments and whatnot. I imagine the bigger two can also be used for studies.

\"Let’s head up top and I’ll show yas the cabins under the poop. Easy now, lubbers sometimes have a problem with those ladders. Another couple of small rooms here on the port side. A nice sized captain’s room on the starboard — he gets a bigger bed too.

\"Now in the stern is the ready room and the end of our tour. Follow me. As ye can see it has a nice view being the only room with windows on this ship. Who needs windows when you have the main deck though? This table here — isn’t she a beaut. It’s the same one that was on the ship when I found her. The outer frame is made from the same darkwood as most of the ship while I don’t really know what the rest of table is made out of, but ain’t that carving a beaut?”

== The Strange Design ==

On the table in the ready room was a symbol of a mysterious looking fish similar to a marlin. Its body curled as if it were jumping out of the water giving the entire design a circular shape. Other curious designs in the negative space of the symbol completed the carving. Some of them could have been clouds or waves.

Salazar’s keen eyes caught a curiosity about the design. The eye of the fish was an exact replica of the larger design. With his usual impetuousness Salazar immediately whispered a cantrip to detect any magic in the eye. At first there was none, but Salazar with eyes more alert than most could glimpse slight slivers of magic coming up from the lines of the design.

“Aye, there is magic there ya rude salty slop, but it is hidden well. I had to go over the ship with fine detail to find it,” said the Gaffer noticing Salazar’s rude casting.

“What is its nature?” asked Salazar.

“I don’t know exactly; couldn’t figure it out. Anyway if we keep flapping our feckin’ gobs we won’t get to sail her. Let’s go!”

== Sailing the Ship ==

The ship pulled out into the evening and although the channels of the Gaffer’s archipelago were calm and there was little wind the ship glided through the water swiftly, it’s sails barely fluttering. And as the water moved through the deep grain of the ship’s lower strakes curious little vortices rolled along in the water at the base of the ship.

“Let’s take this bitch into some real waters, “said the Gaffer as he gave the wheel a hard starboard spin.

The ship made its way towards the hurricane clouds and as it breached the border of the islands the waters began to pick up and the wind began to blow.

“Zech, Lendon, get the bunt gaskets on the fore-yards and start hauling on those clew-lines! Salazar, Lydon, take up the sheets and trim the sails to give us a broad reach, I want to be sailing by and large in ten minutes! Mae, come and put your arm around me; my old bones are starting to get cold!

The crew quickly got to work on their orders. The ship didn’t need that many sailors, but there was a certain respect given for the Gaffer on the ship — an old man who usually lives alone having fun back in company.

“Alright, bring us full and by. Salazar, hold your luff by Valkur! If I see it lift or shiver I’ll tare your larboard nut out!!

The ship turned and picked up the full force of the wind and by Valkur did it ever sail fast. And although the wind was picking up the condition on the deck was quite calm, a sure sign of the ship’s speed in relation to the wind. Looking over the side one could see the frantic black waves crashing against the hull, but again the ship kept an even keel. The vortices that the lower strakes expelled where wider and faster in this fast wind and rough water and they seemed to limit the drag that most ships suffer.

“Yarr! You know, I would rather taste the sweet salt air of the sea than the cunny of a sun elf virgin,“ yelled the Gaffer as the waves picked up and began to mist the deck.

“Alright, let’s measure the speed of this bitch and then go eat.”

The Gaffer brought out the knotted rope and threw one end over the back of the ship. A wooden beam attached to its end splashed in the water and the Gaffer pulled out a small sand clock and started counting.

Salazar and Zech new what this was for and joined in the counting with the knots as they hit the water.

“One.”

“Two.”

“Three.”

The knots were well spaced so fell slowly, but were still hitting the water faster than most ships.

“Four.”

“Five.”

“Six.”

Zech and Salazar looked at each other with grins on their faces. Six was the fastest of any ship they had ever measured before.

“Seven!”

“Eight!”

“Nine!”

The obvious excitement in Zech and Salazar began to catch on with the rest of the crew. No one knew that the ship was going so fast because she sailed so cleanly. Everyone joined in for the count.

“Ten!”

“Eleven!!”

“Twelve!!!”

“Twelve knots it is!” yelled the Gaffer, putting his clock back in his pocket.

“Umberlee’s tits.” exclaimed Zech in shock.

“Talos’ cock.” agreed Salazar in equal shock.

“And Valkur’s arse hole!” yelled the Gaffer all the while laughing at Zech and Salazar.

At that the Gaffer gave another set of orders to turn the ship a few points and started sailing back in a big loop to the calmer waters and another one of his islands.
