==Lydon's Story: The Isle of the Lich ==

The Isle of the Lich be a mysterious island indeed. Few know how to get to her cause she wards herself against being put on any map. Ye have to be taught to find it. Those that know its location are getting fewer and fewer cause most expeditions that go to its shores never return.

This island be an enigma I tell ye though. Treasure maps show up for it time and time again, all in different languages, most forgotten. I got a small collection me self and none looks the same. One be written on a clay tablet in a cuneiform ancestor of Thorass. All different writings talking about a different treasure of a different civilization.

Do these maps be nothing but tar stained flag rags, or be they something more? After you be coming back from it with those strange gold statues I’m not being so sure anymore. And maybe there was something more to that treasure Scarbelly had him when we sacked his expedition.

What kind of island is this? So small yet full of thousands of civilizations that have long since risen and fallen—can that be said about any other land in all of Faerûn? Who knows me hearties? I be thinking that the Isle of the Lich holds many mysteries that will never be found because there be a truth that all salts know: where there be treasure, there be death.

Everyone nodded their heads at that story, except for maybe May who had never been to this Isle before.

Next came Zech’s story, and he told it with passion.

==Zechary’s Story: Smiling Jack==

There I was: thrown overboard the Bloody Vengance, tied up tighter than the rigging of a Lantan whaler. Sinking to the bottom of the very sea I was and I swear I heard Umberlee herself laughing at me.

But then I cried, “Zechary Mudge will not die this night!” And I loosed my bonds and swam up to the stormy surface. But which way was up? I asked meself. And then I remembered a wee bit of pirate wisdom that I heard in a tavern once.

“Always carry a cork in yer pocket tied to a bit of string.”

An I did, and it saved my life that day cause I was able to follow er up and breath that sweet air once again.

But my troubles were not over me friends. Not by far. For as I started to swim for the shore I felt a terror round me—the very terror of Umberlee herself. And then it happened: A giant sea creature the size of two Waterdeep man-of-wars lifted me out of the water in one of its terrifying tentacles. I felt my life squeezing out of me very bones.

But then I cried, “Zechary Mudge will not die this night!” And a bolt of lightning struck the beast, throwing me clear and knocking me out.

And so I found meself washed ashore under some forgotten pier. I was alive, but I had lost everything, and I am ashamed to say my dear friends: Zechary Mudge began to weep.

It was then that I heard a mysterious voice say to me, “Ar’ you be down on yer luck lad?” I looked around and found to my amazement that the voice was coming from the smiling mouth of a skull on the beach.

It continued to talk to me. “At a boy. Me name’s Jack, Smiling Jack they called me an’ I can see ye be needing some cheerin’ up lad.

Ye see ye cann’ feel to down for losin’ a dual this early in your Piratin’ career. Now I lived me a long an’ prosperous life an’ I think I can give ye a small bit of olde wisdom that may help ye along in yer life.

Any Pirate worth ‘is salt knows ‘e cann’ie pick a scrap with a dog that’s bigger than he. Ye won’t get rich by attacking the whole of the Lord’s navy. Ye must build yer reputation by pickin’ on the little guy. It’s the Pirate way lad. Soon ye will find yerself becoming the terror of the whole sea. T’is then when ye can start aiming at the bigger fish. An’ I can tell just by lookin’ at ye that you got what it takes to be one of the best.

Now let me also tell ye this. The sea is filled with terrors more horrible than any land lubber can ever imagine. The life on the sea is a hard one an’ this is what hardens a Pirate and makes ‘im stronger. You be still dry behind the ears an’ ye ‘aven’t seen a drop of the sea yet.

But oh the beauty of the sea! As terrible as the sea so is she beautiful. I would trade all the gold I ever won to see the sun set in the middle of my great blue mistress once more.

Arr’ but I be getting away from the advice I be givin’ ye:

Eat yerself a lime once in a while. Ye look like ye need it.

Never attack a ship flying a blank black flag unless ye be travelin’ with a man of the cloth.

Never trust a drownin’ lady in the middle of the sea unless ye saw her fall off yer own boat.

T’is may be easier to get a crew with a club to the head, but t’is better to get a crew who will be loyal to ye with promises of the wealth of the sea.

Always try to count the booty yerself and take an extra eighth for yerself before ye divide the swag among the crew.

Always hide ye yer extra eighths before anyone be getting wise to ye. A good hiding place be better than the best lock. And besides lad, Pirates have to retire too.

Always make yerself a map to yer treasure. Ye tend to forget where you hide things when ye get on in years.”

Aiy, that be what Jack told me under that pier that day. He gave me these gold teeth here too, but nothing was more valuable than his advice.

As I was beginning take my leave of that port Jack called out to me and said:

“Before you go I will be giving you one last piece of advice that may save yer life one day: Always carry a cork in yer pocket tied to a bit of string.”

And to that I said, “Thanks Jack. It already did.”

== The Gaffer’s Story: Riddles ==

Riddles: do they exist to be solved or are they only for the asking? Heh, I guess that’s a riddle right there.

Clerics might tell you that there are no great riddles anymore. How could there be? They will say. We have the power to ask the very gods the answers to anything.

Well, to that I say fuck off ya flag rag wearing pontificating pussies. There are riddles in the world and no cleric has solved them I say.

But I’m not talking about the who’s screwing yer old lady kind of riddles. I’m talking of the great riddles. Three of such would be: the Riddle of Steel, the Riddle of Gold, and the Riddle of the Sea! Yarr!

We have in some tellings the riddles like this. The Riddle of Steel asks us: what is stronger than steel? The Riddle of Gold asks us: what is more valuable than gold? And the Riddle of the Sea asks us: what is deeper than the sea?

Much discussion ensues, until...

Now what makes these riddles some of the greatest riddles is that there are other tellings of them. The Riddle of Steel: what is worth fighting for? The Riddle of Gold: why trade time for gold? And the Riddle of the Sea: why is it worth sailing at all?

More discussion ensues.

Well, there once was a man that lived on the coast who was asked this very question. Now the village that this man lived in earned its food through fishing as coastal villages do. I couldn’t say that they didn’t or else you would all call me a bullshitter. Fishing yes, but sailing no for the people of this village had all they wanted with the fish that were right next to the land.

Well, this one man that I mentioned thought he would do differently, and differently he did.

He went to the shipbuilder and said: “Build me the biggest ship you can build for I wish to sail out into the sea.”

To this the shipbuilder replied: “I can only build ships as big as these rowboats here for we do not sail out to the sea and I don’t know how to build ships for that.”

“Then one of those rowboats will have to do,“ said the man.

Then he went to the carpenter and said: “Build me a mast and a yard to put on this rowboat for I wish to sail out into the sea.”

To this the carpenter replied: “I can only build you an A-frame for a house for we do not sail out to the sea and I do not know how to build masts for that.”

“Then the A-frame will have to do,“ said the man.

Then he went to the tailor and said: “Make me a sail for to attach to my rowboat for I wish to sail out into the sea.”

To this the tailor replied: “I can only make you a tunic and breeches for we do not sail out to the sea and I do not know how to make sails for that.”

“Then a tunic and breeches will have to do,“ said the man.

And so the man took the boat, the A-frame, and the tunic and breeches to the shore. He nailed the A-frame to the sides of the boat. He tied the tunic and the breeches to the a-frame so that they could catch air. And he pushed the boat into the water and started sailing out into the sea.

A little ways out an albatross flew up to the boat, perched atop the a-frame and said: “Of all my years flying around your villages and eating the fish that fall out of your nets I have never seen such a sight. Why must you be the first little man? Why must you sail out into the sea?”

And to this the man replied: “I must sail out into the sea because once the boat builder, the carpenter, and the tailor find out that I’ve gotten their daughters pregnant, I won’t be welcome in my village anymore.”

==Back to Freeport==

The voyage back to Freeport is short thanks to a strong tailwind. It passes without incident except for a little time to reflect.

You may realize with even a bit of melancholy that this may be your last voyage aboard the little Dinghy, the boat that first took you to Parakeet Island and then the mysterious Isle of the Lich. It took you to the cave before the temple of Yig, to Drac’s lighthouse and then to the Isle of the Lich again. Despite its small size it has carried you through storms and unfriendly waters. It has kept you afloat whilst battling krakens and goblin slavers from the Nelanther Isles. What more can one ask of a ship?

But indeed this ship will fade into memory, even myth just as its master will fade. For you will all be leaving Freeport soon and will thus be leaving the friends you’ve made on its shores and betwixt its seas. So is the life of a roving adventurer — wrought with excitement sailing from port to port, but also a sadness in many friends left behind.

Before you can rove though you must have a boat, and this is what the next act of our adventure is all about.
