== Raidfest Begins ==

As you sail into port you hear a crier wandering around the docks. He is being accompanied by somewhat of a marching band that consists of instruments that make mostly banging and honking or clanging noises.

“Hear ye, Hear ye! Raidfest will soon be upon us! She begins in two days time! Get yer ready before the sailings done at Raidfest in two days time!”

== Finding out about the Wastrel ==

Warspite: Waterdhavian navy ship sunk during time of troubles.

Wastrel: sailed by Leto Cook who was responsible for charting the coastlines of most of Toril. He was the only man to have ever done this despite having no reported crew. He was thought to be Valkur’s Chosen; the first and last.

Wemyss: Sailed around the inner sea as a merchant vessel. Sunk by pirates.

Whipple

Whackadoo

Windjammer

Wonder

== The Raidfest Auction ==

The Raidfest Auction is held at the front of the Municipal Auction House almost at the center of the Warehouse district on the docks. It begins in the late morning on the first day of Raidfest.

Around that time a crowd near the population of Freeport itself is bustling around the area. Anyone wishing to participate in the auction is required to pay a 1000 gold deposit that is put towards purchase or kept if nothing is bought. This keeps the rifest of the riff-raff from distracting the auction.

Captain Lydon spots the party and gives the money.

Around that time when the auction should be starting an old red-headed dwarf steps out to a roped off area in front of everyone.

“Good day my laggards. Let the Raidfest auction begin!”

To this he lights a wick attatched to a large metal cask beside him and it lets off a tremendous “BOOM!”

“This is the famous Freeport auction where all the best loot is to be had obtained through the most genuine letters of mark. Throughout the day we will be auctioning off big ticket items here. To the rear of the auction house is the unmarked lot auction run in conjunction with Rhodes of Freeport. Along the road between the warehouse district and the docks are the small ticket items. Let me remind everyone that every thousand gold that is spent today gains you one ticket for the mystery draw at the end of the day. If you can’t find what you are looking for then you must be a shifty Calimashithead. Let’s start with the first item.”

==Big Ticket Items==

Caravel: 15,000gp

Here is a Caravel from the good dirty Amnyards. Her name is the Sante Shylock. These ships are seaworthy enough to make it to the new continent of Maztica, but slow enough to be easy pickings for freebooters.

Galley Carrack: 10,000gp

Here is one of those peculiar Galley Carracks from the Nelanther Isles. The ship sailed by the name of Gritchnit or Crimson Dawn in civilized language. She is very fast and maneuverable if you’ve got thirty filthy goblins to row it. The man who entered it even told me the very heroes of Freeport sold it to him.

Wackadoo: 5,000gp

Now look at this ship. Well, apparently those savages from Chult can build a boat because before your eyes is a Chultan ship. Apparently those odd tear drop sails and vine rigging work because it got from Chult to here didn’t it. Now I think that the one pontoon over there is for passengers and the other is for cargo like melons or foul or whatever those savages ship. But you know, with those Chultans cargo and passengers are kind of a fuzzy line. Maybe they built these ships to deliver themselves into slavery. I don’t know, but we have the ship for you today.

Brig: 15,000gp

This brig comes to us with a tale of woe from a couple of muddied orcs if you can believe it. These mother buggering orcs told me that they were anchored just off the coast of the Isle of the Lich. That’s right you heard me correct, the Isle of the Lich. They said that their captain and most of the crew went ashore only to never return. They had to find their way home alone and are now so poor that they had to sell their ship. Those crepid orcs, I don’t believe a word of it. Here is the Bloody Vengeance.

Schooner: 20,000gp

The crazy old Gaffer has done it again. Look at this masterpiece! Even though the rigging is as senile as the old man himself I am assured that the ship sails well. True to his crazy form the Gaffer will not tell us the name of this ship.

Sword: 8,000gp

This scimitar came to us from the mid-east of Kara Tur. Now I don’t know much about the place, but I am sure that it is full of dirty bastards just the same. Anyway this scimitar inflicts a terrible wound and will unnaturally sever a man’s organs when you hit the sweet spot. This is a terrible blade indeed. (+1 to hit, 2d6 damage, 19-20 x3 critical)

Mask: 10,000gp

Well here is a first folks and brought to us from the depths of the jungles of Chult. This savage looking ape-like mask has the very power to bring a man back from the dead. It will work only once, but what price can you put on that?

Bracers: 10,000gp

Ah the artificers from the city of splendid faggots. Churning out item after item like golems. These bracers will protect you as well as a chain shirt and also have the power to give you arcane speed on command. (AC +4, haste 1d6-1 rounds 1 per day)

Staff: 7,000gp

The drunkards from the Moonshaes managed to get their maws out of the gin joints for long enough to craft this enchanting staff. This staff enhances any enchantment spells (+2 DC, +1 caster level for enchantment spells)

Girdle: 10,000gp

Forged by the beard-grooming lackwits of the spine of the world, this girdle will make you stronger upon command (+1d6-2 Str for 1 min once per day)

Gloves: 5,000gp

I’m sure the Yartard who made these used them to masturbate, but I assure you these gloves were cleaned. They are used to store items that can be instantly brought to the hand. (Gloves of Storing DMG 218)

==Small Ticket Items==

The small ticket street is ablaze with action. Instead of one item being sold at a time, many items are being sold all at once. Auction barkers line the streets hawking the goods while eager buyers run back and forth between the deals to be had.

The goods appear to be parts stripped from ships or bulk cargos.

“These two longboats stack one atop another. Save double your space on deck.”

“Chests for treasure or footlockers.”

“This potent bean from Maszticia produces a drink called coffee which stays the effects of fatigue for a time.”

“A barrel o’ pulleys. What fun!”

“Poor man’s healing potion. Get your salts on their feet for cheap.”

“Fireproof canvas. Good for sails. All you need is a tailor to sew in the buntlines.”

“Look at this rope. She’s got a tight cunting and won’t easily fag out.”

“Magical scrolls to repair your ship at battle.”

“Sell these tropical birds to the debutants in Waterdeep and make a fortune.”

“Breath underwater with this bottle.”

“Tabac. Support your habit for moons.”

==Unmarket Lots==

In the warehousing business there are many lots that go forever unclaimed. This is the reason for the unmarked lot auction. Opening bids are set on the insurance claim amount obtained through Rhodes of Freeport. Those lots with no coverage are opened based on weight.

The unmarked lot auction is run as a silent auction since there is no need for the salesmanship of an auctioneer when you are gambling on your loot.

* A lobsterman’s suit
* A dead body with a +2 ring of protection/resistance. Must cast remove curse to get it off
* Eggs of some sort
* A rock
* Luhix (Powder, BOVD 42)
* Redflower Leaves (BOVD 43)
* Scroll of Drawmij’s Instant Summons
* Treasure map of island in the inner sea
* Darkskull (DMG 214)
* Efreeti Bottle (DMG 216)

==The Second Day of Raidfest==

When the morning roles in on the second day of Raidfest you can see giant tsunami-sized waves just off the coast of Freeport harbour. Strangely though these waves stop in an almost perfect arc around the island.

==The Table’s Locker==

Fitting the medallion over the fish’s eye causes the inner surface of the table to slip up and split outwards into two revealing a compartment beneath. If you were to look underneath the table you would see that this compartment logically should not be there, but this is nothing new to an arcane world.

The first thing that catches your eye is a statue of that same marlin like fish that is on the table’s design and the medallion. It has two pegs sticking out its front that would also fit the medallion.

Also in the compartment is a book wrapped in cloth with a note attached to it.
