Looking for Hob in All the Wrong Places
By late Marpenoth of 1371, Raven and Rufus decided that Hob was long overdue.  The autumn was tremendously cold already, and so the two of you decided to get moving before the snows closed the roads for winter.  The Raventree family supplied horses, and your journey to Neverwinter to locate Hob began.
Four days of riding brought the two of you to the mining town of Leilon.  The single inn o fthe town, the Sword of Leilon, is poorly organized, and expensive for these parts, but it is a welcome change from the cold you had been sleeping in for the last three nights.  The inn was quiet, and there were no travellers to make inquries of.  The proprietors did recongnize Hob
s description, though; apparently he had come through here weeks ago with a carvan of Red Shields (a trading company which operates along the Sword Coast, and in the northner interior.
Two more days on horseback, and the prair of you come into Neverwinter.  This expensive city frustrates the both of you; it is difficult just to get through the winding streets, let alone find anything out.  However, after a couple days of looking around, you find a group of Red Shields, who head into the Shining Serpent Inn.  You find inside, that the place is absolutely full of men from this company, and after some well-worded inquiries, you find yourselves speaking to a mman named Agamemnon, in his room upstairs.
I do know your friend, Hob,
explains the scholarly  looking man.
He took passage from Waterdeep with us a couple of tendays ago, and I have not heard from him since.  I suspect that he was going to the shipping house of Malthoon
s High Road Shippers, as he made some inquiries about them.  It does not bod ewll that you have not heard from him after all this time.
I should like to help you find him, as I may be partially responsible for his fate.  It was I that pointed him in the direction of Malthoon
s.  Come, let us set out now.
Shortly, you find yourselves being led through the streets with Agamemnon.  Just as the sun is vanishing behind the roof-line of the city, the three of you turn up outside the office of the shipping house.
As you approach, a man is stealing out the door, and looking altogether very suspicious.  This prompts action from Agammenon, who yells
Hold there!
The pesoon is started and bolts.  He is quickly caught in an alley by the lot of you, and looks altogether frightened.  The man appears to be in his mid-thirties, has short black hair, brown eyees, and is dressed in leather armour with the sign of the Red Shields on his breast.
Bartelos, you cur!
exclaims Agamemnon, who is clutching your prisoner.
What  are you doing sneaking around here?
and he throws the man into a pile of trash, stands and faces you to speak lowly to you.
Look up his left sleeve, Raven
he implores.  Pulling back his sleeve you find the black mark of the Zhentarim tattooed on his left shoulder.
Hold him, while I cast a spell to see what is going on,
he asks, and then casts a short spell, then concentrates, eyes closed.
Thud! Thud! Agamemnon gives the Zhent two quick boots to the ribs, and you observe the picture of rage on his face.
This Zhent villain has com ehere looking for his master.  I have read his surface thoughts.  His master is not here, but he is worried that we will find out about a man named Malkor, who has traveled  to Luskan.  He is also afraid that we will find out about the slave caravan that Malkor is leading there.
This being said, he asks of you:
What shall we do with this piece of trash?
It is at this time that the Watch comes by, and interrupts.  After a quick exchange, they end up hauling off the Zhent, leaving you lot empty handed.
I have enough to go on; there are some friends of mine that I fear may also have gone to Luskan on that slave carafvan, and I aim to free them.  What say you?
You find yourselves making preparations that night in Agamemnon
s room in the Shining Serpent for travel north, and the next day, the three of you set off to Luskan.
It is bitter cold the morning you leave, and a slight snow flurry erupts part way through the day.  However, after a hard day of riding, the three of you pull into Port Llast.  The only inn in this village of 700 is The Alliance Arms, and it is in this quiet palce that an attempt is made on your lives.  While sleeping that night, someone set fire outside your room.  The smoke quickly filled the places, and you found yourselves bailing out of the second-floor window.  Below, a flock of assassins was waiting with poisoned crossbow bolts.  Through a little bit of luck, most of the bolts struck Rufus, and ha little effect.   The five assassins were quickly overcome by your abilities, and four were captured alive (Raven having killed one).  Once again, the mage cast a spell for interrogation, and learned that the assassins were regular army from Luskan, hired by an unknown man to kill the three of you.  Little else was discovered, and the local authorities hung the men the next morning.
That morning Agamemnon donned a suit of leather armour and bow.  The bow had a symbol of Meilikki on it, and for Rufus, the resemlblanc eo ftis man in this gear was far too reminiscent of the road-mage Zlatim.  Throughout the day,Rufus managed to bring up the subject obliquely, and you learn that Agamenon was a very close friend to Zaltim and Ansul Bloodshoulders.  He explains that he had come here to help them, but he could nto find them.  The news of their deaths, conveyed by Rufus, brought the man into a ruage, and the rest of your journey to Luskan was made shorteer by his determined pace.
Reaching Luskan a couple of days later, you dicede that you would likenever to see the walls of this foul city again; you are all treated like spies and thieves as soon as you enter the place, and there are certainly people following you at all times.  Luckily, after a little investigation, you manage to learn that a supicious-looking caravan headed to Mirabar a couple weeks ago.  A couple witnessed claim that they heard moaning coming from barrels that were supposed to be delivering salted fish to the miners of Mirabar.
So off along the cold road you raced, setting into Mirabar by mid-Uktar.  Just before a blizzard snowe dthe whole place in.  The blizzard rage dfor almost a whole month, an dyou were forced to hole up in the city, at the Sign of the Forgehammer for that time.  The fortress city (of about 17,000) people was more friendly than Luskan, but the no-nonsense men and dwarves of this grey place were of limited entertainment value.  You did learn of the passage of the caravan that left Luskan; 40 men, 12 wagons all heavily loaded with barrels and such.  They had no markings, and claimed to be heading for Waterdeep, via the Long Road.  The stay in Mirabar was very frustrating; not being able to get back on the road, and having been led there for no apparent reason  (as yyou would all have to head back to Waterdeep t some point anyway)_ was too much to bear.  Finally, the storm showed signs of letting up, and the lot of you braved the tail end of the blizzard to set out.
By your reckoning, that caravan had to set into Waterdeep long ago.  I thad about a 20-day headstart down the Long Road, and would not have had to endure the degree of inclement in weaterher as you all did, this close to the Spine of the World Mountians.  Hopefully, you thought, your friends and allies back in Waterdeep would notice the caravan, and rescue Hob before he and the other slaves disappeared intoSkullport.
Down the Long Road as fast as you could in the thick snow; first Longsaddle, then Triboar, then Westbridge and Redlarch.  The winter had fully struck, and the usually pleasant Long Road was a  misery to you all, in this relentless winter in the Dessarin Valley.  By the time you reached the crossroads in Amphail, it was already mid-Ches, and winter had no sign of letting up.  All down the Long Road, there was ample evidenc eof the caravan heaeding through, but by the time you arrive din Amphail, none could say for certain whether it headed south to Waterdeep, or east towards Loudwater.  At this point, Agamemnon announced that he would head east to look for signs of passage, and that the two of you shoul dhead south, back home.
And so, on the 29th of Ches, the two of you arrive back in Waterdeep.  After weeks of information gathering, none of you is able to find evidence o fthe caravan heading into the city.  The caravan has stolen away undetected it seems, and Hob with it.
Looking for Hob in All the Wrong Places
Stephen Robertson
Stephen Robertson
Microsoft Word 9.0
Looking for Hob in All the Wrong Places
Microsoft Word Document
