From the journal of Salazar...
----

Have months or years passed? 

It seems not long ago that I left the sea, and made my journey inland. I followed one of my life’s many callings, and I am better off in many ways. Learning magic in Luskan was but one of these callings, but I did not realize at the time that it would make me hear, clearly as a bell, Her calling.

As it takes a trip to the City for a country pauper to appreciate his rustic home, and a trip to the Country for the wealthy noble to appreciate his gilded palace, it took a trip, and many years, inland for me to appreciate where I come from. For I was born upon the waves, and grew up on planks and in the rigging. And hated it! Life isn’t easy for most of us. But there is always a manner in which it can get markedly worse, and I have seen many of them. And seeing things worse, it gets you to thinking of how fine things, in fact, where.

So, here I am then, wasting ink on this banter. And it is all Leto Cook’s fault. For I cannot think of anything but the Riddle of the Sea. Here are my thoughts.

To begin with, I should say that the Sea has always asked more questions than it answered. Though it always listens, it always speaks, but never answers me.

It is the endlessness of the sea that draws me. Boundless. Limitless. Lawless. One of the many ironies of men is that we make the most rules about the sea, where, in truth, there is no law but Hers.

Bloody Sodomy! Though I have mastered much Art, I have not the philosophical mind of many of my mentors, and this frustrates me. The Riddle of the Sea seems to be in a language unto itself.

Well, I do not pretend to even understand what the Riddle of the Sea is about, or who it is even addressed to. All I can say is that it has been driving me mad these last few nights. But, standing at the lonesome wheel of the Wastrel, late at night, and listening to Her voice for hours, whilst cutting through the limitless waves towards god-knows-what, I thought back to a time when I got sick of the land, and I have been mulling this over in my head.

This is my final thought, regarding the Riddle of the Sea, for now. It is rough, but expressive, even if I am not; 

:Often I’ve suffered in foreign seas 
:Yet still, even now, my spirit within me 
:Drives me seaward to sail the deep, 
:To ride the long swell of the salt sea-wave. 
:Never a day but my heart’s desire 
:Would launch me forth on the long sea-path. 
:I must go down to the sea again 
:To the lonely sea and the sky 
:And all I ask is a tall ship 
:And a star to steer her by
