right


This character concept is used in two campaigns.

==Keep on the Shadowfell==

This is the experimental on-line campaign run by Gus.

Shepherd is a priest of Torm who is the defacto leader of the party. He is guided by his faith but respects that his companions have varying motivations.

He is a front-line fighter, and rarely leaves Brash's side. He is trained in the use of shields, longswords and scale mail armour, making him a sturdy contribution to the front line.

==Loudwater==

Shepherd Malaric Adon

*Title in Loudwater Campaign: Battle Chaplain of the Order of the Golden Lion, Chapter Waterdeep

In this campaign, Shepherd is a replacement after the events with The Nightweaver.

Shepherd was sent by the Thunderstaff Family, specifically by Bleskos Thunderstaff, who is a high-ranking clergyman from the Cathedral of Torm in Waterdeep, to investigate the trouble in Loudwater. He has been dispatched in the service of Torm, but he is no fool. He knows that he has an agenda to keep for the Thunderstaff Family and business.

He is just the man to see it done, and without complaint.

==From the ProBoard...==
A battlepriest of Torm given the title of Shepherd, took little time in making an impression on the people of Loudwater. The Tormtar rescued nearly a dozen citizens singlehandedly from being burned to death in a fire set by Iron Jackals and from there, his reputation was set amongst the citenzry of Loudwater.

Prone to long-winded speeches, Shepherd Adon has an uneasy and tense alliance with Magistrate Brannikar and often over the last three months, the two of them have been overheard arguing with one another. Shepherd Adon has no official rank or title but the threat of returning to Waterdeep and reporting to his superiors what is currently going on in Loudwater is an effective tool from time to time in getting his desired results when dealing with Magistrate Brannikar.

A significant sore-point between the two of them involved the \"repurposing\" of Iron Jackal prisoners of war. Brannikar ended up winning that one when he managed to move all of the prisoners to the site where Castle Hammerfel is being built.

Unwilling to allow such a thing to pass by, Shepherd Adon responded with the creation of The Shields in response to Brannikar's creation of The Blades. Some believed that the Magistrate had no need for a force such as The Blades as they were men that could be used in defense of the village. It took only a few inspiring speeches from Shepherd Adon and he had more than two score of men willing to lend their arms and give their lives in the defense of Loudwater.

Shepherd Adon sees personally to the training of the Shields and a significant number of them have become devout followers of Torm; which coincidentally (or perhaps not) is rapidly becoming the most common religion in Loudwater
