==Choices in Dreams==

You have had very troubled dreams since you came out of the Shadowfell.  You are hoping that by confronting the Dark Garden, the villains that dogged you in that twisted realm and possibly had a hand in your terrible dreams, that you might get rid of some of the dreams.  Many are just replays of your experience in the Shadowfell and variations thereof.  However, recently you had one that was different.

In this different dream, you were standing in the middle of a small garden surrounded by a low stone fence that reminds you of the fencerows of your old estate.  There is a withered and browning crop of wheat under your feet, but you notice a single little green leafy plant growing up through the bracken at your feet.  You crouch down to take a good look at it, and instinctively brush away the nettle from around it.  You then notice a man standing beside you.  Looking up, you see a partially familiar face that you can’t quite place.  The man is wearing plate armour and has a sword on his hip.  He has long brown hair and a ruddy face, and he seems to have a slightly radiant aura.  The man puts a hand on your shoulder and smiles down at you.

“It’s a terrible thing, having to choose the course your life will take.  You care for that plant with the hands of a farmer you never were; it’s in your blood, see.  You can’t help it.  But there is something else in your blood, and you cannot follow both paths that you are capable of taking.

“Look around, son.  In your dreams you always return to this farm.  But when you wake up, you are in a castle, or under a tree in Cormanthor, or a dozen other terrible places.

“I don’t envy you your choice; you’re a good and Faithful man; you could use Amaunator to make crops grow, which makes families grow, and good and happiness follow.  But Amaunator has given you another option; you can use him to strike down those that would keep our brothers and sisters from working the land, and providing for families.

“You can’t do both, though.”

You stand up, and notice that you have a sword made of pure light in one hand, and a sickle in the other, likewise made of pure light.  You look from one to the other, then look for the man, but find that he is gone.

You take a last look at the field you are in; it needs so much work, but you can also see that beyond the little stone fence is shadow.  Again, you look to the radiant tools in your hand, and then you wake up.

==Awakenings==

Iolus laid upon his cot for longer than he normally would. His brow furrowed with thought and his hands clenching into fists and then unclenching repeatedly. Shar's taint from the Shadowfell still laid inside him, festering in the dark corners of his soul and mind. It was his desire to seperate himself from the agrarian ways of his family and prove that the gift he received from Amaunator was one to be used to battle the shadows that seemed to be drawing closer and closer to the Dale. The gift was what led him into the Shadowfell, heedless of the despair and dismay that hammered at his companion's psyche and now much like a warrior would bear a scar upon his flesh from a battle with a fearsome foe, he now carried a scar. One that was not seen, but he could certainly feel.

He pinched the bridge of his nose with one hand; a futile attempt to stave off a looming headache and he growled quietly to himself.

\"I will burn this taint from my mind and from my soul. I will scour it away with light and fire. That will not be accomplished by tending to and irrigating fields.\"

His nostrils flaring slightly as he took in a deep breath and sat up in his cot.

\"I choose the sword...\"

Letting out the breath he had just drawn in a low, long, weary hiss; he pushed with his hands and stood in order to begin preparations for the next task he was to be given.

Decisions
