Reminiscence of the Very Reverend Mr. Oengus Elderstoat, tutor and confessor to the Marchioness of Elber:
----

“Ah yes... I remember her now. How the great maestro Catullian had chanced to take on a pupil of only moderate musical talent was beyond the members of the chattering classes at court. She had simply appeared in his company a month before, as if she were no more a stranger than the Grand Duke. Some whispered that she was his child by an unknown elven maiden – though if that were true it must also be said that features betrayed no suggestion of Catullian’s bloodline. Others hinted that she was an orphan, whose parents had entrusted Catullian with their daughter’s care before they died. And then there were the inevitable cynics who insisted that she was trading … ah… physical favours for her lessons. But the simple truth was that no one knew anything about her, and Catullian would only smile knowingly when anyone asked.

“What was clear was that Catullian spent most of his time with his slight young partner (I say young, but in truth she was older than my grandmother! Still, she could easily be mistaken for an adolescent girl), lending the cynics’ story more credence than most. His air in public became a trifle distracted, as if his mind was perpetually elsewhere. Yet within weeks of her arrival, his music became more focussed, more driven – almost mystical. His final concerts were masterpieces, and the castle hall still echoes with the applause.

“It was after his last performance that Catullian took his charge, the elf-girl known only as Rabbite, on a voyage to the south – on what he would only comment on as 'a musical expedition'. He would not even tell us his destination. The point was moot, though, for Catullian fell victim to the fever that has reached us on the southern ships. By the time the ship had reached the Pirate Isles and Freeport, Catullian was dead. His letter of credit to the ship’s captain carried little weight unsigned, and Rabbite was put ashore in Freeport – penniless, homeless and alone...”
