[PC Attribution: Tyriol Grimbold (Christian)]
Tyriol grew up in Loudwater and was raised by his mother, Maeghuen ((may-gwenn)). With his mother being human, then it was clear that his father was elven although he never met his father growing up. His mother being completely uncommunicative about his absentee father was something he grew accustomed to eventually but at one point, he managed to get a single name out of his reluctant mother.

\"Leirran\"

No one else in Loudwater knew anything of an elf by the name of Leiran but Tyriol wasn't able to poll the entire population of Loudwater simply because he was generally quite busy getting into trouble with his best friend Arlyn Redhand. Arlyn was a brawny half elf that meshed well with Tyriol's quick wits and the two of them grew up together.

Maeghuen was a scout for the Loudwater guards and was rarely in town and as Tyriol grew older, his mother took him on her patrols where he learned more about the surrounding area and woodcraft.

Arlyn and his family got into trouble when his family's cabin was assaulted by orcs. Arlyn and his family were saved from certain death by a man named Devlin. Devlin was the charismatic leader of a group of individuals that went by the name of The Free Company of the Crescent. Feeling indebted to Devlin for saving his family, Arlyn went with the Company to explore the ruins of Spellgard to the east of Loudwater when requested to do so by Devlin.

This left Tyriol with very little to do while not on patrol with his mother and the other scouts and he found himself growing more and more eager to embark on some manner of adventure to occupy his time.

==1480 DR - Return to Loudwater==


Tyriol Grimbold left with an adventuring party later to be known as The Seven a little over one year ago. He returned looking much the worse the wear, pale-skinned with dark rings under his eyes on Kythorn 28, 1480.

If Tyriol was surprised or saddened by the news of his mother's death, he did not show it. Upon arriving and accepting the urn that contained his mother's ashes, he demanded an audience with Magistrate Brannikar. The meeting was brief and Tyriol disappeared inside what used to be his home and did not come out until the following day when Magistrate Brannikar announced that Tyriol Grimbold would be the new Captain of the Wardens of Loudwater.

Despite the sudden and strange arrival of Tyriol and the grim way he seemed to carry himself now, being assigned the role of Captain was viewed favourably by the residents of Loudwater and many a time it was heard, \"It was the right thing to do. Honours his ma, it does...\"

==Notable Quotes==

\"A man could grow fat on the honey seeping from your tongue, Kethoth.\"

A pause, during which he let his chin rest against his chest, eyes closed, savouring the small nap that his throbbing eyes so suddenly desired.

\"And stay away from my mother.\" He added as an afterthought.

-January 7th, 2011

Grimbold
Category:Christian
Grimbold, Tyriol
Grimbold, Tyriol
