Volund was curious as to what these two Oghmans may know of the feywild and its demigods, so he approached the pair of them and crouched down beside them as they sat against the wall. Looking first to the human, but then addressing the dwarf, Kulda, he asks, \"I'm glad we got here when we could and we will do anything we can to help any survivors in the temple above. I was wondering if one inquiring mind could beg the pardon of another, so that I might ask you a few questions?\"

He continues as they merely return a tired nod, \"What is your, um, field of interest? What kinds of research or studies do you do, or keep, in your libraries?\"

The priests that had been rescued appeared to be grateful if a bit weary and shaken up by what they had just experienced.

Kulda simply shakes her head sadly and speaks in a soft voice.

\"There are no survivors. We're all that's left.\"

Krioy snaps in response from where he sits nearby.

\"There has to be some Kulda, some had to survive.\"

Kulda simply shakes her head and gives Krioy an irritated look before turning her attention back to Volund and giving him a curious look in response to his question.

\"What...I...the Binder of What is Known is my interest, sir. I see to the repository as part of my service to Him.\"

She motions to Hrogan before looking back to Volund.

\"He used to as well before receiving assignment. We all serve in the repository. \"

She lets out a deep, ragged breath, clearly relieved to be out of the harrowing situation she had just been in and she gives Volund a puzzled look as she continues.

\"What do we keep there? Well...everything. We keep everything. Everything Loremaster Thames had stored her, which is extensive, however everything else we encounter is stored there as well. Then there is the duplication cry...\"

Kulda is cut off by the touch of Krioy's hand upon her shoulder and he gives Volund a tired but pleasant smile as he spoke.

\"Kulda, and the rest of us have been through much. Might we rest first before answering your questions Sir?\"
