Volund was son to Hod and Gita Heimdall of the High Forest. Hod was a woodcutter who lived in a homestead with his two brothers and their wives and children. It was a simple but happy life for the Heimdall clan and Volund; although put to work early as a child, still had a happy if austere childhood.

Volund grew up in fear of a gathering of druids called . The Cerulean Circle kept a close eye on the Heimdall Clan and routinely reinforced the need to respect the forest and ensure their lumbering was not harming the forest. Although aggressive and merciless at times, The Cerulean Circle was not entirely resistant to reason. The Heimdall’s managed to eke out an existence in the High Forest and with their homestead half a day north of the Dire Wood, when the men felt brave from time to time, they would venture into the dark, foreboding forest and cut wood there, free of the influence of the Cerulean Circle.

There was one day during Volund’s twelfth year where his father, uncles and two cousins returned from a day of work. Volund had injured himself three days prior so was kept at the homestead to work at chores there rather than help with the felling of trees. The men returned pale, and clearly disturbed by something. Volund’s father simply smiled and brushed it off, explaining they had a bit of a scare in the woods to the south but they all returned safe and sound and a little bit wiser for it. Volund couldn’t get anyone, including the cousins that had been there to speak of what transpired and it was forgotten about after a tenday.

On the eleventh day, Volund awoke to being carried on a litter by a grim-faced half-elf whom he later learned was Ghedorh Furrowford. Ghedorh was a druid of the Cerulean Circle and seemed to have little time to explain to Volund what happened. Volund was persistent with his questions and even more persistent in his attempts to get off the litter. A weary Ghedourh promised to answer all the questions Volund had, but first they needed to have a drink “in order to assist with the long journey ahead.”

Volund slept for a day and a half after that.

When he awoke he was in Coar’n, the main base of operations of The Cerulean Circle. Coar’n was a strange place full of grim-faced and tight-lipped druids, rangers and wardens. Volund was kept at arm’s length by everyone there and when he asked where his family was and what happened to them a high ranking druid by the name of Zoga simply stated that his family was dead.

Questions of how resulted in the same answer.

“We do not know.”

Questions of who did it resulted in the same answer.

“We do not know.”

Questions of why did this happen resulted in the same answer.

“We do not know.”

Nine months after what Volund liked to think was being held a prisoner in Coar’n, he was extra handy at bringing extra bowls of ale to a ranger who had returned from patrol and the ale happened to loosen the ranger’s lips.

“I am not able to say exactly what happened but it is my understanding that your family ventured too far into the Dire Wood. Mayhap whatever they found there, followed them out?”

It was all Volund needed to hear. There was always someone keeping a close eye on Volund as dozens of failed escape attempts could attest to but with the return of the rangers from patrol, something had the high circle and nearly everyone distracted.

Shortly after hearing what the ranger shared with him, Volund was gone.

It was a little over a three day journey in the High Forest south to the Heimdall homestead and as Volund drew closer to his home he began to grow colder and colder. As he drew closer, frost had formed on the leaves and the ground near his home, clearly an unnatural occurrence for the time of year that it currently was.

Finding a path he recognized, he broke into a run, spooked by his surroundings and desperate to see what had happened to his family. So focused was he on the discovery that he didn’t notice that the air was growing colder as he grew nearer to his home. His breath was misting around his face and the frost that had appeared a few moments earlier on the foliage was now ice as if it were midwinter.

He slid awkwardly as he stopped suddenly upon entering the clearing where his home was. Everything was ice. His home, the barn, the well the trees surrounding the clearing…all of it was crystalline, blue-white ice.

There was a chill that ran through the very soul of Volund and it wasn’t from the cold that surrounded him. The entire place seemed as if it were frozen in time but none of his family could be found. Calling out for them or cries demanding who had done this went unanswered and soon the tears that were running down Volund’s cheeks were freezing to his skin. Hopeless and filled with a chilling sorrow he turned to flee from the terrible place that was once his home and he tripped over something. He hit the icey ground hard and when his senses had returned to him he turned to see what had tripped him up.

It was a sword. The blade shone with a silvery-blue light inside the frozen glade and it was buried, blade first in the ice. Even in the unnerving light of the frozen glade, Volund thought the blade was one of the most beautiful things he had ever seen.

He was reaching out for it without even thinking about it when the entire world lurched and had he already not been on the ground, he was sure he would have fallen. A voice was heard, as if some man was standing behind him, his icey breath dancing across Volund’s ear. He wanted to look over his shoulder and see who was speaking to him but something in him told him not to. Something in him told him that if he did, the intense cold he was now feeling would scour his soul.

“The blade is yours. Take Shyr’rach and prosper.”

The boy gripped the blade and it slid cleanly from it’s icey prison, although large and Volund was awkward with it he felt like he was whole. He felt as if he were filled with sadness, a type of sorrow that made him want to claw out his eyes or burn down the entire forest out of frustration and the voice had returned.

“You…belong…to me!”

It whispered fervently.

“I will give you power beyond measure and you will be one of my Wintertouched but for the moment, return to Coar’n and learn of the power I provide. Speak of this to no one for none will understand. Few are capable of seeing that which I have seen and continue to see. There will be a time when the power I grant you will serve my purpose and if you wish to see your family again you will serve that purpose. Shyr’rach will not be laid aside easily, mortal and all that I provide will be even more difficult to lay aside. Do as I deem necessary and all will be right for you and yours.”

The world lurched once more and Volund was falling into darkness.

He awoke once more to being carried on a litter. Ghedour looked back over his shoulder and scowled at Volund.

“Stupid child. The high circle will demote me for this and for that…”

He motioned with his chin towards Volund’s right hand. The silvery-blue blade was held there, the hilt and Volund’s entire right has was encased in ice, the blade practically attached to his hand.

Ghedour sighed wearily…”…and for that, I fear the high circle will flay me. I know not what manner of pact you made man-child, but I fear it is something that will cost you and many more dearly.”

A decade later, Volund was still approached cautiously. He was recognized as a reasonably valued contributor to what the Cerulean Circle was trying to accomplish in the High Forest and the surrounding area but as Volund grew more experienced, his abilities became more and more unusual and less and less acceptable to the rank and file of the Cerulean Circle.

Volund had yet to hear from the voice that spoke to him ten years earlier but his bond with Shyr’rach and the abilities he had were clearly coming from somewhere…or from something. He was told to follow the Cerulean Circle “for the moment” and he wasn’t about to question whether or not a decade might seem like “a moment” for some. He wanted to get his family back and if following the will of some being would allow the return of his family, then so be it.

The burning of Weathercote Woods was something that needed to be addressed and although Ghedour was being sent to investigate what transpired and who was responsible. That night, Volund was visited by the icey voice for the first time in a decade.

“The six mortals and the fire-child are of interest to me. Seek them out. Go with your misguided saviour and assist him in seeking out The Seven.”

It was widely known that Ghedour preferred to travel alone but with the fire that was raging through Weathercote and rumors of hobgoblins massing together a concerning sized force, the High Circle insisted on accompaniment. Volund volunteered as did two others. A wood woad by the name of Bogrun and a Wilden of the Fey Realm that preferred to be called Ishii.

The four quickly prepared for the journey and left Coar’n. Three of them seeking to mend the damage done by those that set the Weathercote Wood aflame and the fourth seeking out “six mortals and the fire child” for his nameless patron.

Heimdall
category:Jeff
category:The Cerulean Circle
category:The Seven
