An amicable, elderly gentleman, fond of whistling and travelling by himself. Zamomel appeared to be honest when claiming that he was from Aglarond, seeking Mattrick Lychaeus and Baird of Kelemvor. Upon hearing about their untimely demise, Zamomel revealed that the individual by the name of Seriadne that sent Baird and Mattrick to seek out the Horns, was revealed to be a malaugrym; an evil, mystical creature from the far realms.

Zamomel very much wishes the adventurers to continue in their search for the Horns of Eltab. He wishes to use the Horns to free Aglarond from the looming threat of Thay. Should the party wish to give him the Horns, he will pay them appropriately and they will be rewarded in a fashion that only a country such as Aglarond would reward a nation’s heroes. He can be contacted at the Dripping Dagger in Waterdeep should they wish to assist him in the freeing of his, Baird’s and Mattrick’s country.

When encountered on the road to the , Zamomel appeared interested in Tyriol and seemed to be amused when he had heard Tyriol’s last name. (No attempts were made by the party to follow up on this, however). Zamomel also had a lengthy conversation with Kethoth about...a number of things, all of which involved much beard-stroking and the judicious use of multi-syllabic words.

==From the ProBoard...==
A wizard hailing from Aglarond; Zamomel appears to be very, very old but beyond appearing to be aged, he moves well and speaks with a profound sense of focus and wisdom.

There is little to share about Zamomel Stass other than the fact that he appeared from the east a little under a year ago and began asking questions regarding where he might locate two worshippers of Kelemvor as it was a matter of grave urgence. It was during his “investigation” of sorts that he learned of the adventuring company that the two Kelemvorites joined and it was through this that the adventuring company became known as The Seven.

Zamomel was always polite if persistent and went out of his way to speak to what seemed to be everyone in Loudwater and the surrounding area although it was reported by a patrol of wardens that Zamomel was met at the edge of the Ossur farm by the four brothers where the eldest, Issen Ossur answered the wizard's question. There were even a few individuals that went out of their way to avoid being questioned by Zamomel but over the course of a fortnight, he managed to speak to everyone all save one; Curuvar the Brazen. It struck everyone in town as unusual as it was expected and anticipated that the two wizards would meet and have some manner of a grand conversation. Zamomel appeared to be irritated over being unable to locate Curuvar but just as Zamomel was arranging to leave, the two encountered each other outside of the Green Tankard.

What happened next was unexpected and still talked about in hushed conversations to this day. They said nothing. Both wizards stood still, looking at one another although Marsh Laval swears that he saw it all through the shutters of the Tankard and swears that, “th' two of 'em were lookin' right clear on through t'other.” It did not go on for long but onlookers swear they expected the two wizards to start casting spells at one another at any moment.

Zamomel said nothing but smiled, nodded his head in what seemed a polite gesture to Curuvar before turning and walking away. The wizard has not been seen since and patrols reported that he left close to sunset and headed north-east.
