[PC Attribution: Zechary Mudge (Stephen Robertson)]
Being one of the many tales of how Zechary Mudge died to live another day...
----

Zechary found himself opening his eyes again after a long painful coma. All around him the world seemed calm again as the soothing waves lapped against his face. Righting himself he took his bearings and started asking himself the same questions that he might ask after a merry night of drinking. \"Where am I?\" \"How did I get here?\" \"Why am I naked?\" 

Unfortunately this was not after a night of merry drinking, and Zechary was lucky to be alive.

Looking around he saw that he was under some forgotten pier. Piles of refuse surrounded him having been brought here by the tides just as he was. This was clearly a favourite dumping spot for the sea. Feeling his face Zech found a thick fresh scab that formed from his right cheek to the middle of his chin. The blade that made that cut also seemed to have knocked out two of his teeth: his upper right canine and his bottom left front. As Zech finished tracing the path of his wound memories started flooding back.

== The Bloody Vengeance ==

He remembered being at the gangplank of the Bloody Vengeance fighting sword-to-sword with her terrible first mate, Aggro. Just before Zech had already gutted the ship’s two guards with hardly a scratch to show for it. Then all of a sudden he was pelted with arrows from both sides and Aggro raised his massive scimitar. Then blackness...

He remembered waking up in the hold of the Bloody Vengeance tied to an old crate with the captain and the first mate standing over him yelling and spitting at him in their cursed Orc tongue. Suddenly, an old friend appeared between them and the Orcs fell silent. He started asking Zech questions that Zech was only too happy to answer: “Who are you?” “Where do you live?” “Who was your accomplice?” After he was finished he turned his back and started walking out of the room. One of the Orcs asked out in common.

“What we do wit’em now?”

“Go and burn down his house then throw him over board once you’ve set sail. Maybe you will get lucky and he will have a family you can kill too. I’ll deal with his companion.”

The Orcs gave a sinister laugh at this reply then beat Zech over the head with some blunt objects and the pirate saw darkness once again.

== A Watery Grave ==
Zech awoke splashing into stormy waters still tied to the crate. Immediately panic filled Zech’s soul as the crate started dragging him to the sea floor. As Zech sank further and further into his watery grave his surroundings became ominously calm. The water was silent, muffling out all signs of the storm above the surface. The water was black with no trace of what may be down below him. Zech’s wounds stopped throbbing with pain as the cold night water numbed his body. Zech would make a natural transition into death at the bottom of the sea.

Or would he?

“Zechary Mudge will not die this night!” cried Zech as if answering the Grim death at his back. A sudden rush of adrenaline allowed Zech to take stock of his situation. His bonds were pretty well tied, but not good enough to hold a skilled knotsman like Zech. He quickly freed his arms and started swimming for the surface not bothering to free his legs from the crate as his air supply was running out. Zech scrambled for the surface with a Pirate’s speed even though he was well weighted; Zech was a strong swimmer indeed. Zech was swimming more strongly than many sea creatures, but he was not reaching the surface. Suddenly Zech realized that he could have easily been turned around when he was struggling with his bonds and he could be swimming at some unknown angle towards the surface or towards the bottom of the sea. Zech frantically searched the depths of his memory to come up with some means to make his way to escape to the surface. At the back of his mind he could remember a night in a port bar on the other side of the world. An old Pirate at another table was imparting his wisdom on some young mark and Zech was listening in.

“Always carry a cork in yer pocket tied to a bit of string.”

thumb|400px
At the time, Zech hadn’t known exactly what the Pirate was getting at, but he'd taken the advice nonetheless. And it was lucky for Zech that he did, as he suddenly realized what the cork was for. It was also lucky for Zech that the cork was still tucked into the back of his breeches. He pulled the cork out and it immediately bobbed to the end of its string pointing the exact direction to Zech’s freedom.

The clapping of thunder met Zech as he broke the surface gasping for air. Zech filled his lungs with air and then dove back down under the water to deal with the bonds that were still around his legs. He loosed himself with some effort and then broke the surface again searching for land.

An arch of lighting outlined what looked like the silhouette of a coastline and Zech started swimming for it. As any sailor worth his salt will tell you land is always farther than it seems and this land even seemed like it was far. But this distance was not much compared to what Zech had gone through this night and he was confident that this swim would be no match for him. The water was rough, but Zech took strong steady strokes as he slowly started making his way towards the shore.

== The Master of the Sea ==
As Zechary was swimming he felt a large mass move past him. That mass broke the surface as Zech noticed a scaly form about five feet in diameter break a nearby wave.

Usually, a good storm is enough to keep the creatures of the sea well below the surface. However, there are those creatures that are more terrible than any storm. These are the creatures of legends never believed for no man ever survives an encounter with one of these monsters of the sea.

Zech noticed another scaly mass on his other side, then another, and another. The sea erupted all around him as the owner of all of these scales broke the surface around him in a colossal mass of tentacles and teeth. This creature’s size was such that it could easily have not noticed Zech as small as Zech was compared with it. But Zech knew that this was not so as he found himself staring straight at a deep black pupil that was twice the size across as he was tall.

Deep Dweller, Ship Eater, Fleet Destroyer, Master of the Sea — these are all names that this legendary monster has been called before. Many times has this creature been described by the sole survivor of a fleet of ships destroyed in its wake. Only the wisest survivors would note that they only were able to describe the part of this creature that broke the surface.

Zech felt a massive tentacle wrap around him and he was lifted above the surface of the sea. Looking down from a height that was about the same as that of the crow’s nest of a Galley Zech could see his final destination within the gaping maw of this massive beast.

“Zechary Mudge will not die this night!” cried Zech as if challenging this ancient terror. Suddenly, a bolt of lightning arched through the black night striking the beast and its prey at its highest point. Zech was thrown clear as the tentacle’s muscle seized from the lightning. Zech hit the water and then blackness...

== Smiling Jack's Advice ==

thumb|400px|Smiling Jack

And so Zech found himself under that forgotten pier. All of the questions that could be answered were answered, but Zech had nothing else. All of his possessions were lost. His clothes were gone and his house was probably a smouldering pile of ashes by now. Zech knew that he was lucky to be alive, but he couldn’t help feeling that little bit of despair that one feels when he has nothing in the world. He slumped back into his trash heap as if there was no place better place to go.

“Ar’ you be down on yer luck lad?” said an old grizzled voice from behind Zech.

Zech wheeled around looking for the source of the voice, but saw nothing.

“Wha’? Where are ye being?”

“Down here lad and to yer left.”

Zech looked down and had to rub his eyes for the voice was originating from the jaws of a skeleton that was lying on the ground. Well it wasn’t a full skeleton, but rather the head, torso, and right arm of one.

“’At a boy. Me name’s Jack, Smiling Jack they called me an’ I can see that ye be needing some cheerin’ up lad.”

“Ye see ye cannie feel too down for losin’ a duel this early in your Piratin’ career, me son. Now I lived me a long an’ prosperous life an’ I think I can give ye a small bit of olde wisdom that may help ye along in yer life.”

“Any Pirate worth ‘is salt knows ‘e cann’ie pick a scrap with a dog that’s bigger than he. Ye won’t get rich by attacking the whole of the Lord’s navy. Ye must build yer reputation by pickin’ on the little guy. It’s the Pirate way lad. Soon ye will find yerself becoming the terror of the whole sea. T’is then when ye can start aiming at the bigger fish. An’ I can tell just by lookin’ at ye that you got what it takes to be one of the best.”

“Now let me also tell ye this. The sea is filled with terrors more horrible than any land lubber can ever imagine. The life on the sea is a hard one an’ this is what hardens a Pirate and makes ‘im stronger. You be still dry behind the ears an’ ye ‘aven’t seen a drop of the sea yet.”

“But oh the beauty of the sea! As terrible as the sea so is she beautiful. I would trade all the gold I ever won to see the sun set in the middle of my great blue mistress once more.”

“Arr’ but I be getting away from the advice I be givin’ ye:”

“Eat yerself a lime once in a while. Ye look like ye need it.”

“Never attack a ship flying a black flag unless ye be travelin’ with a man of the cloth.”

“Never trust a drownin’ lady in the middle of the sea unless ye saw her fall off yer own boat.”

“T’is maybe easier to get a crew with a club to the head, but t’is better to get a loyal crew with promises of the wealth of the sea.”

“Always try to count the booty yerself and take an extra eighth for yerself before ye divide the swag among the crew.”

“Always hide ye yer extra eighths before anyone be getting wise to ye. A good hiding place be better than the best lock. And besides lad, Pirates have to retire too.”

“Always make yerself a map to yer treasure. Ye tend to forget where you hide things when ye get on in years.”

“Now that there advice be worth a small fortune, but I feels like I better be givin’ ye something else to help ye get back on ye feet. I see that ye have yerself a bit of a scratch across yer face there an yer foe may have got a couple of yer teeth as a souvenir. As luck may ‘ave it I had a similar injury in my day but I got me some fillers that were better than the originals. Seems as how I don’t be needin’ them anymore I thought you may want to be taking them.”

Zechary looked a little more closely into Jack’s smile and sure enough he had two false teeth in the exact same places where Zech had lost his. Zech reached into Jack’s mouth and the teeth immediately loosened into Zech’s hand. Zech might have thought it strange to take someone else’s teeth, but he gave them a try nonetheless. They fit perfectly and even seemed to fuse into their cavities so that they could not easily be pulled out again. Zech may have thanked Smiling Jack, but he seemed to be overwhelmed by the oddness of his gift.

“A perfect fit lad. I think that my job here be done now so I shall be telling ye to head back up into the real world now. But before I go I will be giving you one last piece of advice that may save yer life one day:”

“Always carry a cork in yer pocket tied to a bit of string.”

With that last piece of advice a wave of the now incoming tide swept up over Smiling Jack and he was gone. Zech had to look out in disbelief.”

“Thanks Jack. It already did.”

== Back to Freeport ==

Seeing that the tide was coming in Zechary got himself up and started walking back into the city. He walked for a while and then looked back. Where the pier was supposed to be was nothing but the beach just outside of the city. The pier hadn’t been covered up by the tide though. It had never been there at all.
