A Hobbity Adventure - The Five Shires World Background
Setting Document by Gus Miranda
25 November 2025
Source: Email thread 19ab2d030f860382

[Note: This is the world background Gus provided to the players before the campaign's first proper session. The game uses OSE Classic Rules. Players are Stephen (Turnip), Todd (Boffo), and Les (Wedge).]

---

You live in the Five Shires, an area almost entirely populated by hobbits.

To the north are the forbidding and imposing Mountains, a seemingly impenetrable wall keeping the barbaric and monstrous wilderness at bay.

To the east is The Great Woods, home of tricksy elves and nasty fey creatures, and beyond that the fabled forbidden lands of the mythical human tallfolk: grotesque savage creatures that have feet for hands, and hands for feet, and great big mouths where their bellies should be, and they talk backwards, and eat only one meal a day.

To the west is The Swamp, a putrid, nasty place.

And to the south is the endless expanse of water of The Sea, with its violent storms.

No, only here, in the Five Shires is the land peaceful, fertile, civilized and pleasant. The proper place for decent folk to live.

The Five Shires themselves are:

1. On the eastern edge is Eastshire, a wilder and somewhat uncivilized place where the hobbits there are said to fraternize with the elves and fey of the woods.

2. To the north is Highshire, in the highlands and foothills of the mountains. Most of the Hobbits there are more rugged, and work as shepherds rather than farmers, and are considered to be hardier than their lowland cousins.

3. Seashire takes up the bulk of the southern coast and is the most populous, industrious and wealthy shire. Most finished goods and luxuries tend to come from there.

4. Southshire in the southwest is the least prosperous of the Shires, and its residents are often the butt of all Hobbit jokes. The Newfies of the Shires, if you will.

5. Heartshire is in the centre, and is considered to be the most traditional, comfortable and pastoral of the Shires. This is where you are from, and where our campaign has been taking place.

The Five Shires exist as a sort of loose confederation with no real government. Even within each shire, they exist as a similar informal confederation of families, townships, farms, etc. No one really knows who's in charge, and no one really cares.

There is really no need to concern yourselves with the minutiae of politics or geography of the Shires just yet. We might get into it later. I've purposely not provided you with a map because you don't have one and have never seen one. You just know that your village is where you are, and the furthest you've ever travelled has been to Gomwick and back.

There are plenty of ruins in the Shires. These structures suggest a long-dead civilization dwelt here, but most of the stones in these ruins have been repurposed, and those ruins that can't be moved or used have been left alone. The story is that a great civilization of giants lived in the shire, and then they all died and vanished and no one knows why, and no one really cares why.

You've only ever seen Hobbits, and a few dwarves. It's known that the dwarves lost their homes in the mountains to the foul goblins long ago and are now mostly a dying diaspora. The Stonecleft dwarves you met at the Festival are the most you've ever interacted with any dwarf.

Elves are known to exist, but they are terrifying creatures of magic. I like using the description of elves that Terry Pratchett wrote for Discworld:

"Elves are wonderful: they provoke wonder. Elves are marvellous: they cause marvels. Elves are fantastic: they create fantasies. Elves are glamorous: they project glamour. Elves are enchanting: they weave enchantment. Elves are terrific: they beget terror."

I love that. In the world we're playing in, hobbits have a fascination with elves just like they do in Middle Earth, but it is one that acknowledges that elves are dangerous, alien tricksters and no good end will come to a hobbit from interacting with an elf.

Goblins are also known to exist as they are the ones that drove the dwarves out of the mountains. But they're not something a hobbit will have ever seen or encountered. Goblins exist far to the north, in the mountains and beyond.

Other than that, everything else is something of a mythical thing from stories and songs here in the Shires, and that includes humans (aka Tallfolk). There are occasional tales of some monster or creature in the woods or wilder areas of the Shires, but these are just stories you've heard.

Hobbits are about 3' tall, and dwarves and goblins maybe about 4' tall. Elves are slightly taller getting to about 5' tall at most.
