A Hobbity Adventure - Journey to Gomwick and Buford's Quest
DM Narrative by Gus Miranda
25 November 2025
Source: Email thread 19ab2d030f860382

[Note: This is the main narrative kicking off the second chapter of the Hobbity Adventure campaign. The party — Turnip (Stephen), Boffo (Todd), and Wedge (Les) — travel from Thistledown to Gomwick to meet the ailing Buford Niss, who sends them to investigate the village of Orlane. Includes quest setup, NPC dialogue, and equipment grants.]

---

Early, but not too early as to have missed breakfast, on the morning of the 24th of May, the three of you meet up at Turnip's front door, packed and ready to travel to Gomwick in answer to Buford's letter. This meeting is reminiscent of the previous journey the three of you took, with the fine and pleasant mid-spring weather a comfort as you strike out onto the road.

Unlike your previous trip to Gomwick where you were forced to camp out in the woods, this time you are headed to The Right Way Inn, where you've planned to spend the night. The Right Way sits at the crossroads of the North Road and the Heart Road, and it is a well known and frequented establishment that has more in common with a small village than an Inn.

The day is pleasant and easy going, and you spend most of it chatting with fellow travellers and farmers you meet along the way, even managing to hitch ride on the back of a wagon a few times.

The Right Way is all that is promised, being lively and boisterous, and with plenty of good food and drink. The three of you pay for beds on the communal Long Room - a step up from sleeping on the dirty floors of the Common Room, but a definite step down from the more luxurious and expensive private rooms. No matter, as it is dry and warm and comfortable enough for the one night.

The next morning, a little cooler with grey skies, you set off west along the Heart Road towards Gomwick, expecting to arrive just after mid-day.

Coming into the town of Gomwick, it feels strange to you seeing it without the throngs of crowds that characterized the festival last fall. The town seems almost abandoned by comparison. It hits you that Gomwick, while larger than your own home village of Thistledown, is far smaller than you recall from the festival days now that you see it in its usual state.

The road into Gomwick leads you past the Happy Hobbit Inn, and it is an act of great willpower that keeps you moving past its doors as your stomachs now ache with hunger. But you know that good (and free!) food and drink await at the top of the hill at Buford's house. You push on, past the town proper, receiving a few "Good days!" and "How'd ya fare?'s" along the way. More than few hobbits recognize Boffo in his feathered yellow hat, and you're forced to stop and shake some hands as well.

Finally, you push past, and meander your way up the switchbacks that lead to Toppo Hill House, arriving with sore legs, parched throats, and expectant bellies.

You knock and ring the bell, and it isn't long before Dalton Dallydown opens the door and receives you. You remember Dalton as Buford's butler and seeming right-hand in all manner of his life. Though he is excellent at not being seen as he does his duty, it is him that greets you today.

Dalton looks overtired and concerned, as he politely greets you and takes your cloaks and other things and hangs them neatly by the door. He defers politely and refuses to answer any questions or become engaged in conversation.

During this brief moment as you stand in the entryway of Toppo Hill, you notice that much has changed in the intervening months. While the house had seemed exuberant, today it is subdued. In the fall, every candle seemed to be lit, every hearth with a warm fire, and every room occupied with some semblance of light or use. Today, the house seems cold and empty. In fact, you notice that many of Buford's prized possessions — which you had noticed had born a distinct nautical and exotic theme — are gone.

Dalton leads you to the same parlour where you had talked with Buford in the aftermath of the Scarecrow business and from whence you set off to find the Hermit. The room looks as if no one has been in here in months, and Dalton takes pains to open curtains to bring in some light.

Once he sees you comfortable, he leaves for a few moments and returns with a tray of refreshments — much meagrer than what you remember — and excuses himself again to inform you that his master will be along shortly.

As he does so, a figure enters the parlour from the other side.

Buford Niss is much changed. The hobbit you see before you has lost a significant amount of weight, looking almost gaunt. He wears a dressing gown over his clothes, and over that he has a wool blanket draped over his shoulders. He walks with difficulty, and with the assistance of a cane.

However, as he enters the room, you can see the spark of life still in his eyes, and he has genuine joy at seeing the three of you here in his home once more. He greets each of you warmly, asking about your families and your winter, and if you had much trouble on the road. He looks at the poor offerings of food that Dalton has provided, and insists that better sustenance be served. Dalton shoots him a concerned glance, but Buford is undeterred and demands that proper food should be served to his guests, and that Dalton should run down to the Happy and bring up whatever stew and dishes they've made today.

Once the pleasantries have taken place, Buford practically sinks down into an arm chair and needs a moment to recover.

Then he turns to the three of you and, with some difficulty speaking, but evident excitement in his voice, gets to the crux of why you are here:


"Thank you, my friends, for agreeing to come. It means a great deal to me that you are here and are willing to help me.

First, I should tell you that over the winter I did receive word from Our Friend in the Woods — just as he promised he would — and it has only obfuscated the Scarecrow matter further.

I won't bore you with the cryptic details, but the message he sent was simply the following: 'The crows are scared because the serpent hungers.'

Well, I did not know what to make of it, if I must be honest! And I have spent much of the winter pondering on it and trying to figure it out.

Recently, though while I was thinking on it, I remembered about my little statue. You see, many, many years ago during my travels, I acquired this beautiful piece of art made out of solid jade. It was an intricately carved coiled snake, with its head reared up very majestically. You could see each individual scale. It was lovely! And that wasn't all. You see its head was likewise delicately made with great artistry out of a solid piece of gold, with two bright rubies for eyes. But the greatest surprise was that you could remove the golden head, and beneath it was the face of an extraordinarily beautiful woman. It truly was an amazing piece of art! I was told it was very, very ancient and also very, very expensive!"

At this Buford gives a hearty laugh, which sends him into a coughing fit that takes a while to subside.

"Anyway, now the problem is that it has gone missing. I've searched up and down and every which way in this house, and it is nowhere to be found.

I have come to believe that the Scarecrow incident, and the message from the old Hermit, and now the missing statue are all related somehow.

But, odd as that may all be, this is not actually why I have summoned you here today. No, that is a labyrinth whose entrance we have not yet found. There are no real leads that we can follow yet.

But, I do require your help, but for an altogether different task. As you can see, I am in no state to leave my home."

Almost to emphasize the point, Buford begins another hacking coughing fit. He wipes his mouth with a handkerchief, and Wedge notices that the little pocket square is speckled with blood.

"Here," he says as he takes a sip of brandy to soothe his throat, "Read this aloud, please." And he hands a piece of paper to Turnip.


[Handout provided separately]


Once Turnip has finished reading, Buford speaks:

"Something must be truly wrong if Zakarias is reaching out to me like this. We haven't spoken in quite a long time, and didn't part in the best of terms. This letter is very unexpected. And concerning.

Especially now that I think back on the Festival and recall how odd it was that so few visitors from Orlane came to it. And those that did come, seemed to be rather grumpy and reserved; not at all what I recall from such a prosperous and gentle little village like Orlane.

What I am asking of you is to travel to Orlane and seek out my friend Zakarias. Find out exactly what has him in such a bother.

You'll enjoy Orlane. There's a wonderful Inn there called the Golden Grain. Some of the finest beer and bread in all the Shires! Tell the owner Bertram that Buford sent you, and I'm sure he'll treat you right. And he'd better give you a discount!

Come to think of it, there was another Inn in Orlane, called the Soaking Serpent...? Or the Sneaking Snake? I can't remember the name. Awful place. But we were just talking about snakes, weren't we? That's a funny thing.

In any case, Orlane is about 2 or 3 days travel southwest-ish of here. You'll have to go down some backroads, and not the Heart Road, but its pleasant, hilly, farm country with some scattered woods.

Will you do this for me?"

---

[Assuming the party accepts, Buford offers a reward upon their return and provides the following supplies:]

"In anticipation of your arrival, I've taken the liberty to prepare a few supplies for your travels. I hope you do not mind."

Buford provides:

- A set of brand new Leather Armour for each character
- A nice new dagger for each character
- A sling with a bag of 20 stone bullets for each character
- A good quality new leather backpack for each character
- A good quality wool travel cloak for each character

For Turnip: "I remember you eyeing this the last time you were here, and you were decent enough to bring it back to me intact. I'd like you to have it as a gift from me. I have a feeling I won't be needing it again, and such things should be in useful hands, not sitting away rotting in a chest. The darts are specially coated with an oil that will cause your target to fall asleep, so be careful not to prick your finger on them."
  Blowgun: does no damage, but poisons and other effects can be applied via darts
  Sleeping Darts (10): Target AC to hit, then Save vs Poison or fall asleep for 1d6 Turns

For Boffo: "My boy, you're a true champion! I have this elixir to help you when you need it. Drink it down when you feel you're in a pinch and you'll grow twice your size! Just be careful when you use it!"
  Potion of Growth: Grow twice your size, double damage in combat. Roll d6: on a 6 the effect is permanent, otherwise it lasts for the number of Turns rolled. Must be drunk in entirety.

For Wedge: "I know you've already got a good axe from Lothar, so I didn't think you'd need another weapon. Instead I got you a quick escape, should you need it. Drink this down and you will vanish from sight long enough to get away."
  Potion of Invisibility: Roll 1d6 when drunk for number of Turns it lasts. Can be divided into 3 smaller doses, each lasting 1d6 Rounds.

- A purse of 30 gold coins for travel and outfitting expenses
- Sufficient food and drink for 3 days travel
