A Hobbity Adventure - Session Recaps: The Huddle Farm Mystery
DM Recaps by Gus Miranda
30 November - 19 December 2025
Source: Email thread 19ad3c1b5ad4bf95

[Note: This thread contains Gus's session recaps for the Huddle Farm side-quest in the Hobbity Adventure campaign. The party — Turnip (Stephen), Boffo (Todd), and Wedge (Les) — has stopped at Huddle Farm en route to Orlane and been hired by Tom Huddle to catch his neighbour Norrie Sutton in acts of sabotage. What follows is a neighbourhood feud over blackberry bush access that escalates into a dungeon crawl beneath a ruined wizard's tower.]

---

RECAP 1 — THE HUDDLE FARM SITUATION (30 Nov 2025)

Just a recap of sorts because I felt I may have been muddling things a bit as I went along:

1. Tolman 'Tom' Huddle, at the end of his wits and in desperation, has offered to pay 30gp (plus room and board) in order to catch Norrie Sutton, or his family, in the act of sabotage. Such proof of villainy would be enough to turn public opinion against Norrie and towards Tom's favour, in the eyes of the community. This would force Norrie to take down his hedge so Tom can get back to blackberrying.

2. The acts of sabotage:

- kidnapping of Nailer, the Huddle family dog
- trampling and destruction of their vegetable garden
- burglary! breaking in and stealing Tom's most prized and valuable wine
- arson! burning down of their barn
- painting their cows green

Tom believes this is because Norrie feels that Tom's been bad-mouthing him to the townsfolk over putting up the hedge and fence. Norrie says that the hedge and fence are rightfully on his own property and Tom can still go around the hill to pick blackberries. Tom says that's stupid, because going the long way around the hill would take the whole day and besides, they've enjoyed a right-of-way down Deadman's Gap for generations. But Norrie says that that may be true, but the point remains that it is his land and has been in the Sutton family for said many generations and he can damn well do what he damn well pleases on his own damn land. And so on and so on and so on...

And now we have a series of misfortunes at Huddle Farm, and Norrie Sutton claims innocence but gives no sympathy. And Tom says Norrie is a villain for kidnapping his dog, and Norrie says Tom is a reprobate for insinuating he would do such a thing, and Tom says Norrie is a bastard for ruining his vegetable garden, and Norrie says Tom wouldn't even know how to grow good vegetables anyway, what with Huddle Farm carrots being limp and flavourless, and now there's a burnt down barn and green cows.

3. Tom is paranoid and adamant that you not be seen by the Suttons to arise suspicion. Some degree of overcaution in his part might be mixed with plenty of sleep deprivation and anxiety. However, Tom's main point is that he and his family should be seen as above reproach. He has not retaliated against the Suttons at all, and is the victim in all this, and most importantly NEEDS to be regarded as being the victim and the true upstanding hobbit in all this. He is afraid of losing any form of face and moral high ground in this dispute.

Turnip's suggestion that his wife and children might come to bodily harm has driven him even closer to the edge.

4. The excavation is not uncommon in hobbit homes. Not everyone can afford to live underground (see Tolkien's paintings,) and fewer still can afford to make their burrow in a large hill, but those that do are forever excavating and building, especially as their family grows. Buford's Toppo Hill house was renowned for its lavish extravagance being multiple stories deep. The Huddle family's expansion is not unusual for hobbits. Even the repurposing of stone from ruins is quite common. The only odd thing you noticed was the serpent motifs decorating several of the stones both in the ruins and inside; and this is only remarkable because of snakes coming up several times now over the past few days, so it was on your mind.

5. Krund Pothrower, the dwarf. Business partner to Boris Duddle (Tom's cousin) and part owner of Duddle & Pothrower ("All things constructed or demolished!") Tom hired Boris to rebuild the barn as he was too busy with the excavation and the Sutton Squabble. Boris in turn sent his business partner Krund to do the job. Krund lost his temper and berated his 'crew' and then the 'crew' went on strike and have refused to come out of the hut where they've been staying. Krund refuses to apologize or compromise, so he's moved into the Huddle's house where he is happy to eat, drink, and tell Tom all the things he's doing wrong at the excavation. Tom, losing his mind about Sutton, hasn't had time to focus on dealing with Krund and the lack of progress on the barn.

6. The Huddle family includes:

Primula, the matriarch, obsessed with keeping a clean house and being driven mad by the filth of the excavation. She is also near her own wits end dealing with an increasingly insane husband, 8 children (and another on the way), a freeloading dwarf in no hurry to leave or get back to work, this Sutton feud, and now you 3 strangers in her house as part of some hair-brained scheme of her husband's.

Motto and Otto. The 23 year old twins. Motto is bookish and well-read, though Turnip realizes that the lad is not that bright. He tends to have 'ideas' he's just read about, and so he can often be heard telling his father that some dwarvish technique for bracing the walls is better than the old hobbit way, etc. Otto, the messy twin, is somewhat lazy and just as dim. However he always agrees with whatever his father or mother have said, and their favouritism towards him is noticeable.

Berry, the 18-year old daughter, is quite beautiful, much like her mother. Taking on the role of "second mother" with this big family, she behaves in quite a mature no-nonsense fashion. As her mother toils constantly in the kitchen, or goes about obsessively cleaning, Berry is left to do the bulk of child-rearing. Despite this, she seems quite happy, often singing a song under her breath. She has not given the three of you even a second glance since she first saw you at breakfast.

Sherry, the 16-year old daughter is quite bookish and, as a middle-child, seems to keep to herself. At breakfast though, she ventured an opinion about having heard things in the night, at which point the other siblings all made fun of her for being afraid of the dark and her apparent belief that the Hill is haunted. The noise was dismissed as Turnip's late night snack misadventure. Almost in tears, she just went back to reading her book.

Sara and Mary, the 10-year old fraternal twins. These two live in their own world of incessant bickering and self-obsession. They're either fighting over some missing item of theirs they claim the other stole, or they're telling the other one that whatever chore they're doing they are doing it wrong. The family has basically tuned it out, but the constant arguing between these two is the background soundtrack in the house.

Bordo, the 8-year old boy Turnip scared, is largely forgotten in the house. He's quite attached to Sherry, who reads to him from her storybooks, and he claims he once saw a giant frog-headed demon leap out of the ruined tower in the Fortfield, and is the only one who tried to defend Sherry's claim the house is haunted - but was immediately shot down by the others because they think he has a wild imagination.

Marlo, the 1-year old baby. Not much to say, other than he's in the process of learning to walk, something that keeps the whole family expectant.

7. The as-yet-unmet workforce hidden away in the temporary work hut built beside the barn rebuild site, who remain on strike until Krund apologizes for his expletive-laden tirade.

8. The Fortfield you investigated briefly is composed of a crumbling tower, which looks dangerous, scattered ruins and stones and a heap of dirt and debris dumped from the excavation. The stones are being repurposed for use in building the new rooms inside the burrow, and the dump will eventually be levelled in order to bury the ruins and create a new field for crops.

9. Although not pressed for time, this is essentially a side-quest to your primary goal in Orlane. However, 30gp is 30gp, which is more money than you've seen yet, and you're being fed and looked after well. Tom thought this would only take a day.

10. Which brings me to the fact that it's really only been a cursory investigation so far this morning. 30 minutes in the ruins, and a superficial tour of the house, is all you've really had. Plenty of questions and poking around possible to do, and traps to lay down.

The goal is to catch the Suttons in the act of sabotage or find hard evidence of their involvement, and to do so without besmirching the Huddle family name.

(You can get as invested as you want with the Huddle Family Drama, or you can just bounce and move on to Orlane. Or abandon the Orlane quest and just strike out on your own. Even though I'm using some old TSR material, I don't have a set adventure plan, so I want you to feel free to go as you please. I do promise there will be some action in your future. It's not all pie-eating and hedgerow disputes. Though it could be, if you wanted.)

And remind me we have to deal with Opal the pony.

---

DM NOTES ON ENCUMBRANCE AND TIME (1 Dec 2025)

[Gus discusses refining his DMing approach, inspired by Call of Cthulhu, and wanting to better track encumbrance and time.]

Encumbrance: The rule for "Item Slot Based Encumbrance" is that an item MUST be equipped in order for you to have access to it. 9 slots of equipped items available, 16 slots of packed items. Packed items require a turn to access. This includes ammo. Opal the pony also has 9 equipped and 16 packed slots.

Time: Tracking consumable resources (torches, candles, food, water) more carefully using the OSR Helper plug-in for Foundry.

[Attached: hobbity_journey.png — a map showing the journey from Thistledown through The Right Way Inn to Gomwick and then north to Huddle Farm near the Sunnyside crossroads.]

---

RECAP 2 — THE INVESTIGATION DEEPENS (18 Dec 2025)

At mid-day, you found yourselves in the Huddle family's kitchen, gathered together with the family for lunch. Wedge stood up and accused the dwarf Krund of freeloading and exceeding his welcome, something that was approved of (albeit quietly) by Primula; but ignored by Tom and Krund.

You went down to the property line and offending hedge, and inspected the area, discovering a set of footprints crossing into the Huddle property from the Sutton farm, and then back out of Huddle farm towards the Sutton farm.

Further investigation of the outside turned up a pipe in the rubble of the burned down barn, inscribed with the initials "N.S." (this pipe was later confirmed to belong to Norrie Sutton, the neighbour Tom is feuding with) and a piece of wool clothing trampled into the dirt in the vicinity of the sabotaged vegetable garden.

You paid a visit to the work-hut, which houses the 'workforce' re-building the barn, where you discovered that the 'workforce' is a not very bright juvenile stone giant named Epsten. Epsten is refusing to work any further until Krund apologizes for abusing him - something Krund steadfastly refuses to do. He also divulged that he spotted a blonde hobbit skulking about on a previous night.

You were then summoned for tea, after which you were accosted by Berry, the 18-year old daughter, who confessed that she and Sam Sutton (Norrie Sutton's eldest son) have been meeting amorously in the barn behind their respective fathers' backs. The pipe you have indeed belongs to Norrie Sutton, but was being used by Sam, and the burning down of the barn was caused accidentally by the pipe while Sam and Berry were otherwise occupied and distracted in the barn. She has not confessed to her father because doing so would reveal her relationship with Sam, and cause even further strife.

You decided to nap, and then stage a stakeout of the fence hoping to catch Norrie or Sam sneaking into the Huddle farm.

At midnight you spotted a figure emerge from the backdoor of the Huddle house and hide in the trees, and then another figure come from the Sutton land and hide in the hedge.

Soon after, you heard a noise behind you near the barn, and when Wedge went to investigate he spectacularly failed his Move Silent roll alerting everyone to his presence there.

Not long after, you spied the figure from the hedge move across the fortfield and disappear into the ruins, and you decided to follow down the hill in the darkness.

Here you discovered an old well camouflaged by a tarp, but curiously surrounded by a number of dead toads.

You then spotted a figure moving in the ruined tower. You proceeded across the field to the tower, and then lit a lantern to investigate the tower and area.

SABOTAGE SUMMARY:
- Vegetable garden destroyed — you discovered a torn piece of wool clothing trampled into the dirt near the garden
- Nailer, the family dog, has gone missing, presumed kidnapped
- Tom's wine stolen — you discovered 'dwarf sized' footprints near the wine cellar, and Krund is a known boozer. You surmised that Krund likely stole the wine
- Barn burned down — Berry confessed that the barn accidentally burned down while she and Sam Sutton were getting busy in the hay, and they left Sam's dad's pipe unattended
- Cows painted green

---

RECAP 3 — THE TOWER DUNGEON AND DM NOTES (19 Dec 2025)

I hope you enjoyed your little dungeon delve. I thought I'd give you a couple of details of clarification if you haven't pieced these together yet:

1. You did find evidence of green paint at the tower, as well as small hobbit footprints. And the empty buckets of paint were hidden in a chest on the first basement level of the tower.

2. It did not appear as though anyone ever ventured into the basement tower levels. Particularly beyond the top-most level. I'm sure you guys are smart enough to deduce that this was a very old arcane wizard's tower.

Basement 1: was a bedroom and living quarters. Where you found the paint, as well as the painted warning about the Eye.

Basement 2: workshop and laboratory, where you killed the Crab Spider.

Basement 3: library, where you fought the wizard's security system. That magic crystal was just supposed to float and take potshots at you, which it did, but we all rolled shitty so that combat went longer than intended. I didn't mean for all of us to just stand in place and go 8 rounds back and forth. It had AC4, but only 12 hit points, so if Boffo hadn't clobbered it for 7 we would probably still be there going round and round.

Basement 4: the Summoning Room. The Eye wasn't specifically a beholder, but in the same family as a "floating eye". It was more of a trap/puzzle than a potential fight, which you guys figured out quite quick. However, the dice-rolling there was also terrible.

It was supposed to rotate left on even numbers, right on odd numbers, on a d6. It only ever rotated in one direction. I really wanted it to rotate back towards you just once to scare the crap out of you!

Then, it acted on a d6+1 minutes, where it discharged an elemental attack on a d4: lightning, fire, poison, cold. And the 4 times it discharged I rolled all 4 without repeats. They all did just 1d4 damage, but the lightning would bounce around and potentially hit you more than once. The fire would set you on fire for an additional 1d4 if not dealt with immediately. The poison cloud would poison you, reducing your CON by half for a turn. And the cold would freeze you in place for a turn.

Basement 5: an unfinished room with a natural tunnel that connected it to the caverns under the well. What built that tunnel is unknown.

3. At the Well, you discovered the slowly dissolving body of Nailer, the Huddle family dog. I think you would probably put together that something up top had poisoned the toads, and Nailer had eaten or bit one of the tainted toads, causing him to become ill and fall into the well. The damage of the fall, coupled with the poison inevitably led to its death, and then subsequent consumption by the Green Slime. It is also possible that someone poisoned the toads and Nailer on purpose, or lured Nailer to the spot and tossed him in the well.

In the locked treasure room (which you opened by picking the lock) you found two empty chests, some broken up chests, and one heavy full chest that was locked. You left that locked chest alone.

Now, I'll point out that Tom is building a brand new fancy stone barn mere days after his old wooden barn burned down, and is also undertaking a major expansion of his home - albeit doing it himself. He's also paying you 30gp and feeding you well for your help in catching Norrie Sutton.

Where would a prosperous halfling like Tom Huddle hide away his fortune?

Before you go accusing anyone of anything nefarious, I should just remind you that this is a hobbit dispute between neighbours about access to some blackberry bushes.

Yes, there was arcane chicanery in the basement of the tower, but someone had put up a sign warning you about that, and aside from the paint in the upper basement level, there was no sign of anyone having ventured down to the lower levels. Remember that Tom's plan is to use the debris and dirt from the excavation to level the Fortfield and bury all of the ruins (including the tower.) So it isn't as though he's luring unsuspecting hobbits to his beholder dungeon trap. He is actively working towards sealing this tower and its dangers away for good.

It is up to you to make up your own minds about what is going on, and how honest Tom Huddle is being. I'm just underlining that Huddle Farm is no Dagger Falls, and Tom is no Invictus the Shadovar Agent. Let's just keep a perspective of the stakes involved: this is about making blackberry jam.

---

TODD'S RESPONSE — BOFFO'S UNANSWERED QUESTIONS (19 Dec 2025)

I'm trying to think of how Boffo could piece together any mystery haha. Here are some unanswered questions:

1. Why wouldn't Tom have found his dog in his own vault?
2. Why would Tom smash his own chest?
3. We did see the Suttons sneaking around. What is the explanation for that?
4. Why would Tom pay us to catch the Suttons in the act of doing something if he did it all?
5. What the heck is going on with poisoned toads?

---

ATTACHMENTS IN THIS THREAD (not accessible via email API — manual download needed):
- hobbity_journey.png — Map of the party's journey from Thistledown to Huddle Farm
