A Hobbity Adventure - The Serpent Beneath: Post-Session Discussion
4-5 April 2026
Source: Email thread 19d593f37570a3b5

[Note: This thread discusses Todd's session recap for "The Serpent Beneath," which is the most recent Hobbity Adventure session as of April 2026. The actual narrative recap is hosted on Todd's Hobbity Adventure website, not in the email body. The thread contains post-game discussion and corrections.]

---

TODD BURRY (4 Apr 2026):

The recap is up: https://tburry.github.io/hobbity/stories/2026-03-31-the-serpent-beneath/

The machine wrote something that I completely missed and I want to confirm it wasn't lying. Did Grover see Zacharias fleeing WITH DONOVAN?

Also, Gus, if you have any other pictures of NPCs or anything I would love to add them to the toad stompers site.

I also made some other fun updates to the wiki:
- PCs and NPCs now have pictures beside their entries. Nano Banana has sure come a long way since I last made rpg images.
- I've added an avatar script to the site that uses a local AI model for facial recognition to get a square cropped version of any character artwork.
- I've added a tokens page that gives tokens that should work with Foundry's dynamic token rings.
- Death daggers! I've added a little death dagger icon beside deceased characters. Hat tip to Robertson for this idea.

I've also done a bunch of playing to try and get Claude to edit things more sensibly with mixed success. This is something I would love to have a bit of a discussion with the more literary people here. I think if I can give Claude a decent checklist that includes how to write certain things then it will improve the content as new information comes in.

The issue is I can spot the mistakes, but I can't describe them to Claude. An example is I don't like Claude just mentioning something like "the temple" when the reader has no idea what that is. I just can't figure out a generic way to describe that writing rule so it is caught more often.

---

GUS MIRANDA (4 Apr 2026):

No, he fled with Derek Desleigh [not Donovan].

I'll send an email with further information provided to you by Cirilli after you rescued her that I just glossed over during the session.

---

LES BLACKWELL (4 Apr 2026):
I'm loving this new platform: robot scribes plus a clean web based Chronicle.

---

TODD BURRY (4 Apr 2026):
Sorry Derrick is who I meant. Huge if true. Fucking Derrick!

---

STEPHEN ROBERTSON (5 Apr 2026):
Great job. Did the sample lines get chosen by Claude?

"I'm not entirely on anyone's side because no one's entirely on my side."

That was me jokingly putting a line from Treebeard in Ramne's mouth. Turnip is on everybody's side.

---

REFERENCE: The full narrative recap for "The Serpent Beneath" (session of 31 March 2026) is hosted at:
https://tburry.github.io/hobbity/stories/2026-03-31-the-serpent-beneath/
