= Fear, Horror & Madness Rules =

Stolen from: http://www.arcdream.com/dennis/NEMESIS.pdf

== The Madness Meter ==

There are three categories of mental stability — the three pillars upholding sane and productive thought.  These categories are: Violence, the Unnatural, and Helplessness. It’s perfectly possible to have one piece of the foundation crumble while the other two are solid.  

Horrific experiences can erode a person’s ability to cope, and someone who has seen too much loses control over some aspect of his personality. Perhaps he develops a crippling phobia of something that reminds him of his traumas. Perhaps he obsesses on what he saw, or creates an elaborate rationale that shields him from accepting the truth. Perhaps he simply fades into catatonic passivity.  

On the other hand, some people resist madness by becoming rigid and inflexible. While they retain control over themselves, it’s a control that comes at the high price of increasing distance from the world and the people in it. It is possible to become so experienced — or numb—that just about any stimulus, no matter how alienating or nauseating, can be handled calmly and with equanimity. The downside of treating a mangled corpse as if it’s as ordinary as breakfast is that you also treat breakfast with the caution and reserve most reserve for mangled corpses.  Strength of this sort is a burden as much as a blessing, because those who possess it are, by necessity, alienated from their fellows and from themselves.

== The Gauges ==

Violence: This gauge dictates how you handle violence; whether inflicting or suffering from it.

The Unnatural: This gauge deals with things that fall outside of the status quo—supernatural events beyond the normal human range of experience.

Helplessness: This measures your reaction to traumatic events that you can’t control.

== Hardened and Failed Notches ==
The three gauges of the Madness Meter measure how damaged or hardened your character has become to their particular influences. When confronted by a shocking event that falls under a particular gauge, you must make a Madness check by rolling a d20 plus your madness modifier that represents how resistant you are to that stimulus.

When you succeed at a roll in a particular gauge, you gain a Hardened notch in that gauge. Hardened notches represent your mind coping with the stimulus, leaving you resistant to it in the future. When you fail a roll, you gain a Failed notch, and suffer
some ill effect as your mind fails to cope with the stimulus. That means one of three trauma reactions — fight, flight or freeze.

== Confronting the Horrific ==

There are many strains and trials that can threaten someone’s mental equilibrium. Not only are they divided by type, they differ by intensity. Having someone shoot at you is clearly a stress in the Violence region, but getting shot and then having to drag yourself a mile to the nearest farmhouse is a lot more difficult to internalize and overcome. Threats to sanity have Intensity ratings from 1-10. This rating is translated to a DC according to the Intensity, your roll must match or beat the Intensity to succeed.

Sanity checks are managed with the Wisdom attribute primarily, with other \"helper\" attributes depending on the type of Sanity check made.  I chose Wisdom as the primary Sanity modifier because I think it is well represented among the current classes.  For instance:  Druids, Paladins, Clerics, Invokers, and Shamans all have high Wisdom attributes.  I think, at least lore-wise, that these types of classes have the religions, elemental, or spiritual support to help them better cope with the gravity of given situation.  Essentially, they have something supernatural to help bolster their Sanity.  There are also other classes that use Wisdom as a secondary attribute, for instance: Fighters, Rangers, and Wardens.  I think these classes also have an underlying thread of grit and determination that allows them to endure the effects of mind warping encounters.  It's an imperfect system, but I think Wisdom (at least lore-wise) offers the best source for one's ability to retain their Sanity.  Without having to introduce a new stat and given current 4E mechanics.

For Violence checks: Roll Strength or Dexterity modifier (whichever is highest) + Wisdom modifier.  As your instincts kick in to preserve your skin in a circumstance that is clearly not safe. It’s a razor-thin margin between using animal instincts to survive and succumbing to animal hysteria. Characters in tune with their surroundings can maintain that balance.

For Unnatural checks: Roll Intellect modifier + Wisdom modifier.  Clearly unnatural events and entities are beyond common experience, and the only hope for putting it into a framework to which a character can relate is logic and abstract thought. Even if the reasoning turns out to be mistaken, it’s better than nothing.

For Helplessness checks: Roll Charisma or Constitution modifier (whichever is highest) + Wisdom modifier. Just as compassion for others allows you to relate and forge connections, understanding your own needs and trials can maintain hope, keep you from shutting down in despair — and keep you from turning into a ruthless automaton.

Hardened notches in a gauge offer powerful protection against challenges of that type: you do not have to roll if the Intensity is equal to or lower than your Hardened rating on a gauge.

This means that every time you confront a challenge with Intensity equal to or less than your Hardened rating, your gauge won’t change. Every time you face one greater than your Hardened rating, your gauge is going to change — you’ll either get a Hardened
notch or a Failed notch. Either way, you won’t be the same. 

The Equilibrium roll is made against a DC of the particular experience's Intensity.  If the roll succeeds, you get another Hardened notch in the appropriate gauge. If the roll fails, you get a Failed notch in it. Furthermore, if you fail you also suffer a
trauma reaction as described below under “Failed Rolls”.

Keep in mind, Intensity 10 situations are extremely rare. They represent the absolute most terrible events you might see in your life. Hopefully you’ll encounter them only once in a blue moon.

== Sample Situations and their Intensities ==
(I still have to convert these to their D&D equivalent, but you get the point.)

Violence ((STR or DEX) + WIS)

• The sight of blood: Intensity 1 (DC 11)

• Being shot at (or shooting at somebody): Intensity 2 (DC 12)

• Seeing a dead body: Intensity 3 (DC 13)

• Seeing a mutilated corpse: Intensity 4 (DC 15)

• Being shelled by artillery: Intensity 5 (DC 16)

• Being attacked by the undead: Intensity 6 (DC 17)

• Suffering the effects of a Rend Flesh spell: Intensity 7 (DC 21)

• Being consumed by a Shoggoth: Intensity 8 (DC 22)

• Being impregnated by a Great Old One: Intensity 9 (DC 23)

The Unnatural (INT + WIS)

• Hearing disembodied voices: Intensity 1

• Seeing an unattended object move: Intensity 2

• Being struck by an invisible attacker: Intensity 3

• Watching a vampire rise from the grave: Intensity 4

• Seeing a Deep One: Intensity 5

• Seeing a Serpent Man: Intensity 6

• Seeing an Elder Thing: Intensity 7

• Seeing a Shoggoth: Intensity 8

• Seeing a Great Old One: Intensity 9

Helplessness ((CHA or CON) + WIS)

• Getting locked in a pay-toilet for a night: Intensity 1

• Being mugged: Intensity 2

• Being locked up for long periods: Intensity 3

• Being violently kidnapped and held for ransom: Intensity 4

• Finding out you’re suffering from a fatal illness: Intensity 5

• Realizing you have hours to live if you don’t accomplish some specific task: Intensity 6

• Waiting on death row for your sentence to be carried out: Intensity 7

• Being herded to your death: Intensity 8

• Confirming the world of the Mythos behind the everyday after years of study: Intensity 9

Characters can start off with a varying degree of notches (hardened or failure) in each category depending on their back story, how novice or experienced a combatant they are, or for any other reason the player and DM sees fit.

A 17-year-old farm boy who just left home for the first time?  Probably zero notches in all 3 categories.

A 700-year-old Tiefling wizard from the Shadowfell?  Probably approaching 3 or 4 notches in all 3 categories (hardened or failure).

Some example characters.  These values can change depending on how you want to roleplay your character.  I know Tesh doesn't like violence for example, so Blacky may opt to have him fail his first encounter (in the character's history) when killing a man or seeing a body, for instance. 

[F F] = two failure notches

[H H] = two hardened notches

[H F] = one hardened notch, one failure notch

DRESDEN

Final Ability Scores: Str 8, Con 14, Dex 10, Int 20, Wis 11, Cha 10

AC: 20 Fort: 15 Reflex: 18 Will: 15

Madness Modifier

Violence = DEX (0) + WIS (0) = 0

Unnatural = INT (5) + WIS (0) = 5

Helplessness = CON (2) + WIS (0) = 2

Madness Gauge

Violence 	[H H] 

Unnatural 	[H H] 

Helplessness 	[H H]

TESH

Final Ability Scores: Str 16, Con 11, Dex 16, Int 8, Wis 15, Cha 10

AC: 18 Fort: 16 Reflex: 16 Will: 14

Madness Modifier

Violence = DEX (3) + WIS (2) = 5

Unnatural = INT (-1) + WIS (2) = 1

Helplessness = CHA (0) + WIS (2) = 2

Madness Gauge

Violence 	[H H]

Unnatural 	[H H]

Helplessness 	[H H]

WIL

Final Ability Scores: Str 18, Con 17, Dex 10, Int 8, Wis 11, Cha 10

AC: 22 Fort: 18 Reflex: 14 Will: 12

Madness Modifier

Violence = STR (4) + WIS (0) = 4

Unnatural = INT (-1) + WIS (0) = -1

Helplessness = CON (3) + WIS (0) = 3

Madness Gauge

Violence 	[H H]

Unnatural 	[H H]

Helplessness 	[H H]

== Successful Rolls ==
If your Equilibrium roll succeeds, you get another Hardened notch in the appropriate gauge. You only ever get one hardened notch per roll, no matter how intense the situation was.

It’s possible, albeit difficult, to completely fill a gauge with Hardened notches. Characters with full gauges have pretty much seen it all and are immune to further shocks. This sort of callousness has additional effects, however, as that sort of alienation
from mainline humanity impedes one’s ability to function as a person.

== Failed Rolls ==
When you fail an Equilibrium roll, you get a Failed notch in the relevant gauge. No matter the relative Intensity of the situation, it’s just one more Failed notch—really horrific experiences are not necessarily more scarring than minor ones. After all, a hallmark
of decaying reason is a lost sense of proportion.  In addition to the Failed notch, however, you must immediately choose one of three trauma reactions.

A trauma reaction means the conscious and logical part of the mind is unseated. You may be reacting with pure instinct, or just be stunned and dumbstruck. There are three trauma reactions, and once one is chosen you’re trapped in that reaction until the situation changes and you have a chance to gather your wits.

The trauma reactions are [1d6]:

[1-2]
Flight: You run away at top speed from the terrifying stimulus. If you’re carrying anything that weighs more than a couple pounds, you drop it. If there’s a choice of direction, you move away from what terrified you—if there are multiple paths that
go straight away, you take the closest, safest or most familiar route. You run until you can no longer hear, smell, see, scent or feel the threat. (save ends)

[3-4]
Fight: You immediately charge and attack with primal, berserk fury until you either obliterate the stimulus, or are destroyed (or just knocked out). You cannot voluntarily stop fighting or follow any group-strategy until the offending object, creature or person is clearly destroyed. Anyone who tries to stop you must also be attacked. (save ends)

[5-6]
Freeze: You either hide and don’t come out until you’re sure the danger’s passed, or you simply freeze like a deer in headlights. In 4E terms, you're dazed and immobilized (save ends both).

== Psychopaths and Cultists ==

Those who manage to gain 10 Hardened notches in a gauge are immune to that stimulus. Some individuals remain highly functioning in society even while suffering from multiple filled gauges. Others don’t cope so well. Some examples of aberrant human behavior are listed below.
• Those with 10 Hardened notches in the Violence gauge are psychopathic — they hold no value to any life except their own.  This is a common trait in mass murderers and serial killers.
• Those who have 10 Hardened notches in the Unnatural gauge are cultists — they either worship or obsessively seek to fully comprehend the supernatural. Worshippers of entities such as Cthulhu and Nyarlathotep often suffer from this.
• Those who have 10 Hardened notches in the Helplessness gauge are paranoid. They trust no one—not even themselves, really—and are sure others are after them. 

== Mental Collapse ==

Every time you get five Failed notches, in any combination of gauges, you develop a serious mental problem. Getting Failed notches always represents mental discomfort, just as Hardened notches represent isolation and alienation. Every five Failed notches means that inner pain has gotten so severe that it impinges on your ability to function. You have developed an aberration. You suffers its ill effects until you lose a Failed notch. If you get another Failed notch, the problem recurs. Another five Failed
notches and you pick up another.  If you get an aberration, work with your DM to pick something that makes sense. Don’t just try to
get something that won’t come into play: Believe it or not mental aberrations can be fun to play. This is your chance to reveal your character’s nature through actions. Don’t waste it.

----

Old stuff I have to incorporate into the above.

Monsters, objects, places, and abilities with the fear, horror, or madness keywords can make an attack against Will that causes the target to be \"fearful\", \"horrified\", or \"maddened\".  Fear, horror, and madness act like diseases and have the same stat-block as diseases in so far as they have an improve, initial, worsen, and final state.  They have DC's that operate on 1/2 of a character's Will (instead of Endurance) and follow the new skill check DC's listed [http://wizards.com/dnd/Article.aspx?x=dnd/drdd/2010September HERE].

I chose 1/2 because this allows classes that don't normally have a high Will to stand a chance at resisting these effects.  It also provides an added safety measure to those important leader classes (paladin, warlord, cleric, etc.) that do have a strong Will ensuring that some defenders, strikers, and healers will be able to keep their heads in environments rich in fear.  I am aiming for the WotC-standard of having to hit an 8 or higher (moderate difficulty, 65% success rate) in order to keep stable, and have a high DC to improve your condition.

An arbitrary character I made was a level 4 dwarf fighter who's Will is 15.  If he encountered a creature with the fear keyword I would make an attack against his Will and on a hit he would become shaken, the initial effect of fear.  Fear operates on a short duration, usually a single fight, so its penalties primarily affect combat.  For a level 4 character, I would use a level 4 fear effect.  To get that I would check the level 4 skill DC's from that page to find a Moderate DC of 14 = stable, Hard DC of 21 = improve.  (These numbers have to be tweaked a bit as the party members level-up because depending on gear choice, Will can sky-rocket far above these DC's, trivializing the effects.)

So at the start of the dwarf's turn he takes his 15 Will, divides it in two to get 7 and applies that as a bonus to his d20 roll.  If he rolls higher than 14 he stays shaken, if he rolls above 21 he improves his condition (no longer fearful) and if he rolls 13 or less then his condition worsens and he becomes frightened.

After combat has ended and he takes a short rest, the fear effect disappears and he is capable of functioning normally again.  If, however, he ended up with a string of failures that pushed him passed frightened then he would have ended up in the final state of fear, panicked.  

A number of things happen during the final state of fear:  The dwarf has completely succumb to his fear of the mind flayer, his heart rate is abnormally heightened and he is experiencing pain (2d6 damage) because of it, and he has lost control of his actions (ultimate penalty for failing twice) and is forced to flee at least 20 squares (official rule for how far?  anyone?) away from whatever caused the fear effect.  Additionally, he is now prone to horror effects until he takes an extended rest.  I will explain this last bit as best I can because I like the way this mechanic works, at least in my head:

1)  Dwarf is fighting some mind flayers, one is a controller that successfully fears him.

2)  Dwarf fails his fear check twice, goes from shaken -> frightened -> panicked.

3)  Dwarf flees and is crippled for the duration of the fight.  He is now susceptible to horror effects until he takes an extended rest to shake it off.

4)  Dwarf's allies (who didn't become panicked) finish off the mind flayers.

5)  Party walks into a large room with vats lining the walls and stone tables in the centre.  On the tables are bodies in various states of surgery, some are still alive, most have their brains removed.  Looking at the vats you can see they are full of brains of all sizes.  Now this scene is disturbing to the party, it's disgusting and terrible but does it scare most of them?  Maybe a little.  But the poor dwarf who was panicked by the mind flayer earlier?  He has to brace himself for an attack made by the room against his Will, something like [+8 vs. Will; horrified].  If it hits, he immediately suffers the initial effect of horror.

To RP it out, I want a character who has reached the final phase of fear to now have (until they have an extended rest) a heightened response to the same scary stimulus.  In this case, the dwarf became panicked at the sight and actions of the mind flayer and upon entering the dissection room he internalized the suffering of the victims and was now under the effects of horror.  The rest of the party was not affected because they did not become panicked at the sight of the mind flayers earlier.  I want the character who has become panicked by something to be horrified if they see a particular gruesome or disturbing scene related to what caused them to panic.

This I think will introduce an interesting mechanic because now places, rooms, and things can have keywords that can adversely affect certain party members while merely unnerving others.

So now the dwarf is under the effects of horror.  Horror is different from fear in that the effects last until the dwarf reaches the 'initial effect' then improves from it.  Until then, he may move up and down the horror spectrum as many times as necessary until he finally shakes the feeling off.

I wanted these to have different effects than purely combative.  Other than Fearstruck, they have an attrition feel about them, designed to wear away at morale over the course of a few extended rests.  Not to mention the penalties suffered for not eating or sleeping for extended periods of time.

You'll notice that the initial effect of horror is to auto-allow fear to occur.  The effects all stack with each other, so if you are \"horrified\", you are more likely to be shaken and scared during combat.  Madness can stack with horror and fear as well for devastating, soul-crushing results.  However, madness is kind of separate from the other two.  Horror and fear really play off each other well.

So let's pretend the dwarf fails his horror checks and goes from being Fearstruck, to having Nightmares, to finally being Haunted by what he's witnessed.  He's now pretty much red-lined on the fear and stress metres and his heart is ready to blow (3d6 damage) and the stress is beginning to wear away at his mind.  This lasts until an extended rest is taken AFTER he has successfully improved to at least Nightmares.

Certain monsters (aberrant, demons, devils, immortals, certain controllers, etc.) can cause madness.  Madness is different in that it will last for a long time, so I don't want to fuck the characters too hard with the penalties.  The dwarf has a Will of 15, so his madness lasts for 7 days (thoughts on this?  too long? too short?).  He takes psychic damage at the start of his madness and loses a healing surge.

The 3 states of madness aren't meant to be utterly debilitating.  You have one that, on a failure, gives a 50% to attack an ally.  One that is more for RP sake, allows me to mess with the character with hallucinations.  And one for RP sake again that allows me to mess with the character and possibly the party by kind of forcing them to act a certain way.

So those are the Fear / Horror / Madness rules I've adapted.

Some other things I'd like the mention.  If you are already under the affects of Fear, Horror, or Madness and get hit with a F/H/M attack again it does not count as a \"worsen\", nor does it reset the duration of the madness.

If you have already failed your Fear check to the point where you are panicked and improve back to frightened and then fail back to panicked again you DO NOT take the 2d6 damage again.  Once you are completely free of fear and get feared AGAIN and managed to fail down to panicked, then you take the damage again.  Same can be said for Horror.

I was thinking of ways to use the healing skill in tangent with some kind of psychic ability or item that allows one to heal an afflicted person's mind in combat:  this would allow a healer to let's say, move a Panicked character back up to Frightened if they rolled a 21 or higher.  A failure would not worsen the afflicted character's condition.

For Madness, some ritual would halve the duration again.  Or taking a full day of active rest would count as 2 days towards the dwarf's 7 required.  Things like that would also affect the plot because if the dwarf was on a tight schedule and had to chase down a band of Orcs who kidnapped his friend, maybe he wouldn't because of his hallucinations, delusions, or paranoia?  Or would be delayed at the very least.

Anyway, let me know what you guys think.  Are these the beginnings of legit mechanics that could possibly be useful in games?  I've adapted them from the Ravenloft PHB, let me know if you have better names for things or better afflicted conditions, or madness states, etc.

== Fear Stats ==

Fear    [Level 4]

- On Will/2; stable DC 14, improve DC 21

- Roll once per round, at the beginning of the character's turn.  Effects last until a short rest is taken.

Improve: The character is no longer suffering from the Fear effect.

Initial Effect: Shaken.  The character suffers a -1 to all attack rolls, saving throws, and skill rolls.

Worsen: Frightened.  The character suffers a -2 to all attack rolls, saving throws, and skill rolls.  

- In addition the character must use a move action to flee in a straight line from any threatening creatures, objects, or places with the fear keyword.  The target may use a standard and minor action before or after the movement.  

- If the character is unable to escape with a move action he may defend himself as normal.  If the character is unable to escape with a move action and has an ability that would allow them to escape, he must use it.

Final State: Panicked.  The character begins to panic and  have strong heart palpitations from physical shock, suffering 2d6 damage.  

- In addition to Frightened, the character drops what they are holding and uses all available actions to flee from any threatening creatures, objects, or places with the fear keyword.

- If the character is unable to escape with a move action he cowers and is unable to take action.

- He is also susceptible to horror effects until his next extended rest.

== Horror Stats ==

Horror    [Level 4]

- On Will/2; stable DC 14, improve DC 21

- Effects are persistent until character gets to \"improve\".  Make a horror check once every 8 hours.

Improve: The character is no longer suffering from the horror effect.

Initial Effect: Fearstruck.  When the character is targeted by a Fear effect and the attack misses, the character is considered shaken.

Worsen: Nightmares.  The character cannot rest fully because his dreams are corrupted by the event, creature, or place with the horror keyword.

- As Fearstruck, but when the character takes an extended rest to restore healing surges he is considered to have two less than his maximum amount of healing surges until he improves to at least Fearstruck.

Final State:  Haunted.  The target is now suffering from physical shock that borders on heart attack and takes 3d6 damage.

- By witnessing the horrifying scene, creature, or object, the character's ability to see any good in the world has been shattered.  He becomes obsessed with the events that brought about the haunting and stops taking care of himself by not sleeping and hardly eating.

- As Nightmares, also character must make a Horror check and on a 'stable' or higher he calms down enough to get some sleep during an extended rest, or eat some food - otherwise the target does not sleep or eat.  

- In addition, the character is susceptible to Madness effects until the extended rest after he has improved to at least Nightmares.

== Madness Stats ==

Madness     [Level 4]

- On Will/2; stable DC 14, improve DC 21

- Effects persist in duration equal to half of the Will-defense of the character at the time of his maddening - in days.

Initial Effect: Madness.  Roll 1d6.  The character suffers 2d6 psychic damage as his mind begins to melt away and loses a healing surge until his madness passes.

1-2; Unhinged.  The horrors you witness cause a portion of your mind to close itself up, you are not entirely yourself and experience temporary fits of anger.  In the heat of combat you are just as likely to hurt your friends as you would your foes.

- When the character rolls initiative, he must also make a Madness check.  On a 'stable' or higher he plays out the combat as normal.  On a failure, his madness takes over and attacks become chaotic.   When an attack roll is made under the effects of this madness two things can happen: 

1) If the natural roll is an even number, the attack will hit the intended target.  

2) If the natural roll is an odd number, the attack will target the closest ally instead.

3-4; Hallucinations & Delusions.  The character perceives something in the world that simply does not exist, or does not perceive something in the world that does exist.  The nature of the H&D is related to the event that provoked the madness.

- Manifestations are capable of causing fear and horror effects for the character and can only be recognized as H&D by a stable or higher Madness check.

5-6; Paranoia.  The character believes that he exists at the centre of a conspiracy dedicated to his destruction.  No amount of rational argument can convince him otherwise.

- The target must make a Madness check of 'stable' or higher before placing any trust in other characters.  If the character fails the check, he must refuse all offers of help as being obvious traps.

- If the paranoid character ever does come upon actual evidence that he has been betrayed or that others are conspiring against him, he must roll +8 vs. Will; horrified.
