It is not surprising to any of you, upon leaving the tower, to see that the druidic woman has been detained. Nor is it a surprise to see Drake Sterling being hauled off on a littler by a group of clerics.

What had the man been thinking? 

Despite the insanity of his actions soldiers begin to cheer and salute as the litter passes them by. By the time the litter is out of sight there is a riotous cacophony of sound - hands clapping, voices cheering, songs already being given voice... and all at once. Drake Sterling, with one unnerving choice, has managed to endear himself to every member of the standing army. But, as you fear it must be, there is a price to pay for infamy.

In the days that follow many of you visit Drake in the Castle’s infirmary. In honour of his actions, the man literally has his own tent, personal caretakers, and servants. His head is completely bandaged and you find yourselves thinking he looks very much the mummy of legend. You also note that his comprehension of his surroundings is a little questionable. and some fear he has lost his senses completely. The cleric overseeing his care, a dwarf by name of Halrou Stonepaddle, only has this to say:

“He dun broke his head in the fall, Amaunator bless the fool.”

Over the next months Drake does manage to make a recovery. However, he is taken at times by fits of rage, and at other times when trying to perform tasks he can be seen to become disoriented for short periods of time. 
He seems rather uncomfortable with his sudden infamy, and downplays all rewards and title he has gained.

“I did only what any of you would have done. I am just happy to have earned this cloak,” is what he tells his fellow White Cloaks.

None can be spared the passing thought on hearing these words: A sixty foot fall, while wrestling a druid to prevent obvious flight, with no regard for the ground below... not me, Drake, cloak or no, not me. Nevertheless, all admit they have a newfound respect for this skull-crushed lunatic. And any would now gladly now take a quarrel for him.

Alystair’s words sum up the actions of the man.

“He won a war, and brought light upon the Dark Garden... on a leap of faith.”
