Source: GDN_Discussion + GDN_Comment
DiscussionID: 28
CategoryID: 15
Category: Metagaming
Title: Party Composition - Abandon Hope: Charity
Format: Html
DateInserted: 2012-04-21 14:11:27
DateUpdated: 2012-05-22 03:58:53

[2012-04-21 14:11:27] DM (OP)
Gentlemen;

Feel free to begin posting all matters of party composition in this discussion.

[2012-04-21 16:30:50] Nathan_Gale
Nathan "The Drake" Gale
1st level Burglar1st level Pistolero
As far as characters go, Nathan is out of his depth with what he's been tasked with.  He's a "tomb raider", "Indiana Jones" sort that is most suited for dungeons and leaping about, etc.
He wears a reversible medallion around his neck.  One side with a symbol of Tymora and the other with a symbol of Ohgma...he shows whichever side happens to best suit at the time.
Previous companions would refer to him as "The Drake"...which he attributes to his wyrm-like habit of being greedy with things. (In his case, information, books, etc)

Nathan will most likely be a mid to short range combatant with his pistol and then resort to stabbing with his short sword when the DM fucks him with limited ammo.  :P
I tried to make him a bit of a climber, leaper and runner.  He's not the "run from a fight" type but he's also not a blind, noble hero type.

[2012-04-21 20:21:23] Arkadios_Solaris
Arkadios Solaris
2nd Level Cleric of Selûne.
Arkadios is a big man.  6'4 and built like a castle's stone wall.
He makes no excuses or apologies for his history:  born and abandoned in the refuse-landen squalor of the refugee camps that still cling to the ruins of Zhentil Keep, he only survive due to his large size and quick wits.  From this pit of inhumanity, he was plucked by well-meaning missionaries of Amaunator and brought to Daggerdale.
In Daggerdale, he grew in both strength and esteem, as he studied and practiced to become a priest of the Sun God.  Always a helpful lad, always a considerate young man, Arkadios became well known and liked in both Dagger Falls and Castle Radiance.
And then, the day before his ordination into the priesthood, he left.
And now, five years later, here he is, returned to Dagger Falls with the holy symbol of Selûne hanging from his neck.
The short story is:  he has been having visions of Amaunator which have been guiding him.  These visions led him away from Castle Radiance and Daggerdale, and have led him on a 5-year pilgrimage where he walked around the entire Moonsea.  While he now serves Selûne openly, he says he does so with the full knowledge and support of Amaunator.
He is by no means a zealot, nor is he even outwardly religious in his behaviour or mannerisms.  However, he has visions of Amaunator and Selûne somewhat often, and these can make him unsettling.
Despite the far that he is a Selunite cleric, he is well-received and well-liked in Daggerdale.  He was well regarded when he left, and now that he's come back, most people are glad to have him back and regard his new "religion" as a temporary affectation he's picked up on his foreign travels.  They're sure in a week or two he'll grow out of it and be back at Castle Radiance taking his vows...

In combat, Arkadios is a big, mean melee fighter.  He's all about getting into the middle of the fight and smashing the hell out of everything with his big mace.
Out of combat, he's probably the most useless character for what Blacky wants since, as a cleric, he has shit for skills.  I'm counting on his personality, religion and when it comes down to it, his magic, to help him out in gathering information and other social tasks.

[2012-04-22 03:30:41] Nathan_Gale
He sounds perfect.
Me likey.

[2012-04-22 13:23:11] Korrick
Korrick is a generally quiet man.
Average build, average height, He does have a rather gruesome scar on his left cheek.
He does not speak often, and almost always his discourse is aimed at collecting information, he is blunt in this regard, with no skill of personality to speak of.
He asks questions, and weighs responses.
He is a sell sword/mind, having been employed by Candle Keep for numerous assignments, twice before he has worked with Gale.
Combat wise he is a master of motion and a master of the Bastard sword, few can equal him in this regard.He is no hero, but is 100% trustworthy in his commitment to his contracts. His life means nothing in contrast.That said, everyone gets away clean is his motto. Flight is a necessity at times.
Sword/spell and mind. A quick summary of the man known only as Korrick.

[2012-05-24 05:32:42] Beliard
Moved to Character category > Beliard

