1 Mirtul 1483 DR – Charrah's Chambre

Mirtul 1, 1483 DR – Charrah's Chambre

The first thing you noticed as you mounted the landing to the third floor of the Town Hall is that the sounds and smells of the building changed dramatically.  While you could still hear the battle raging at the doors two floors down, and the hue and cry from the growing crowd of goblins in the court outside, sounds become noticeably muffled as soon as you made the landing.  As you drew nearer the main doors to the central room, it became almost entirely silent, until you threw open the doors.

The smell of the place changed, too.  Though the first floor, which had become a camp for a large group of goblin guards, was cleaner than most of the settlement, it still stunk of goblin bodies and trash, if not outright excrement.  And it was crawling with rats, lice and meaner things besides.  The second floor was much cleaner than the first, and indeed, looked as though the floors had been swept, and garbage taken out.  The third floor has been cleaned with some diligence, and the smell of goblin bodies transitions into a very earthy, pungent odour that after a moment you liken to a swamp.  It isn't offensive but does seem out of place.

Before throwing open the doors, you take the chance to peek out a window or arrow slit into the court below, and you can see that it has veritably filled with goblins of all types; soldiers, females and children alike are thronging in the open area, brandishing weapons, torches, and improvised tools.  They are making a great cacophony, with a mixture of screams and chants, and you can distinctly hear them calling for the death and worse of Jeska Monarch, with the most loathsome oaths and threats imaginable.

Throwing open the doors to the central room, Charrah's Chambre, refocuses your senses in an instant.  The smell of the swamp rolls out of the room, and you can now hear various noises from inside that were completely absent a second before; low moans and groans from nearly a dozen men and women in cages much too small for them, the growling and grunting of an ogre-sized goblin on the opposite side of the room, encouraged by the various soldiers standing nearby, and of course, the voice of your enemy, whose presence upon a wooden dais in the middle of the chambre dominates your attention.

"I'm glad you've come, Chrysalis" she begins.  Her voice is slow and confident and has an alluring mix of mature gravelly earthiness and smoky seduction.  She stands with black-gloved hands resting on voluptuous hips that sway slowly while she addresses you.  Her most conspicuous features are her curves, which are ample and accentuated by an old black dress that clings and reveals in all the right places.  Her form nearly distracts from her other dominant features; a slightly off-green hue, stark white hair, very long and pointed ears, and mismatched eyes; one of the clear-grey that you've seen in a couple of other changelings in the settlement, the other of a smoky blackness.  A symbol of a black battle axe is tattooed over her heart.

[[Religion: Symbol of Maglubiyet]]

"You've proven your strength, over and over again, and I am impressed.  We are all impressed, are we not?" and she looks about the room to her various henchmen who cow under her stare, and nod silently.  "You have won your tournament, you have won alliances and hearts in Dagger Falls, you have triumphed over some of my strongest captains, you have taken the Tower, and you now stand before me in my throne room, though without invitation.  But I now invite you to a parlay, so that we might find a peaceful solution to this conflict you have created…"  she smiles as some of you furrow your brows at the suggestion that *you* created the conflict.

"Yes indeed, I lay the blame for this war on Dagger Falls, and those that have acted with aggression toward our home.  You will know by now that I have eyes in the town, and I heard about the contest that you won; a game that your people made of eradicating mine from a ruin that you ignored for many decades.  We have made this our home, and have done so without bloodshed, for the most part.  The balance of death and murder surely lies with you.  Yes, we have fought, and killed, and taken prisoners, but only in our defense.  You can plainly see that our prisoners, though uncomfortable, are unharmed in the main.  And further, you can see that I have your wizard's paramour in a cage, and we'll get to her in a moment.

"Before I suggest terms, I desire greatly that you know my mind, and my reach.  I desire to control the lands from this 'farm' to my grandmother's hut in the Sorrow Bog.  Your road goes through these lands, and we would exact a modest toll for safe passage.  This is what I desire.

"My reach, I will give you a glimpse of.  I have agents inside your town and many of your farms.  Indeed, I have one such agent in that very cage" she says, gesturing behind her toward Coventina, her hips and breasts swaying conspicuously with the motion.  It is not difficult to find agents and allies in your town; your differing faiths are in conflict, and the Soothing Mistress offers reprieve for the weak-minded humans who think they have suffered.  This little scarlet whore is one such; tucked away in a tower, mourning the loss of her father by herself, poor poor thing."  Her voice is dripping with sarcasm, and she is unable to stifle a sneer in her prisoner's direction.  "She's the luckiest little whore in Dagger Falls; a rich aunt, looks that every other girl in the dale would murder for, no real work to toil at.  And yet, she is miserable, scared and lonely, and crawled toward the Soothing Mistress willingly, and prostrated her supple young body before her.  And what does the Mistress do?  She serves the thankless whore up to me, by our unseen network, and allows me to use her as I see fit. But you've likely guessed at half of this, or you should have."  Hearing this, Coventina begins to scream through her tears in protest.

"Shush shush, little whore.  You'll be free soon, I'm sure.  I know the young wizard will sue for your safe delivery, and I am willing to see to his pubescent needs and release his little receptacle.  Pardon me; his *'little'* receptacle is that traitorous slut that moistens his shoulder while it plays with his hair. The three of you will live happily ever after, I'm sure."

"But, let me return to my reach and what I have seen, and continue to see…" and with this, she waves one hand seductively, and a shimmering portal opens to the side of the chambre, allowing all of you to look upon a scene of battle.  The scene before you is of your two soldiers fighting at the back door, and Jasper recognizes immediately that this is from the perspective of the ethereal eye he saw floating on the main floor.  You can see that the men are both wounded, and struggling to keep a flood of goblins from overwhelming them.  As you look on, a great green hand of one of the eunuchs reaches in, clutches one wounded man, and drags him outside out of view, leaving one desperate man fending off a tide of goblins.  Then the image shimmers and changes.

Now you see Boxfray and his men fighting at the front door, again from the inside.  You see a great spear come in through the breach in the doors from an unseen enemy and catch Boxfray on an unarmoured portion of his leg.  He falters to one knee, and several spears now thrust at him, most bouncing off his armour, others batted away by his axe.  But one spear finds the mark, and pierces his throat, a fatal gout of blood following the spear as it is withdrawn from his flesh.  The image shifts again.

The portal now shows a perspective of the upper rampart at the Tower, from over the shoulders of the Sun Blades.  Before them, the outer walls and buildings are smashed to pebbles and are overrun with goblins that flood through the ruins.  Many are assaulting the upper rampart, while in the background, others can be seen hauling off fallen soldiers, including one screaming and desperate forester being carried to the rear by a merciless mob of goblins that cheer and jeer at her terror.  Just then, a deeper shadow falls over the scene, and the men on the walls look up.  At first, the image doesn't show what the men have seen, and are now recoiling and ducking from, their faces turned to the viewers showing great fear and hopelessness.  A moment later, a dark dragon glides overhead and circles lazily around and out of view, as the image fades completely, and the portal closes.

A brief quiet fills the room as you process the images.

Charrah's earthy and sultry voice breaks the silence.  "You can see that you and your friends are quite defeated, and your doom is close.  But for all that, I am still willing to make peace.  If you will leave now, and bring my terms to Dagger Falls, and have their Amaunitori draw up an agreement that entrenches my ownership of Thistle Ridge, and my right to exact toll, these prisoners, including Coventina can be released.  But I will not release them until I have the agreement in hand.

"You may find this unsettling and distasteful.  And you are surely crestfallen to learn that you will not own my home.  But this is the path to peace, and indeed to your delivery.  I know you are fierce, and you have made your way to my throne room, and that you are currently weighing whether you can carve your way through my guards and get to my throat.  But I think we all know there is doubt in your hearts; you have fought all day and are tired.  You stand on the threshold of my domain, and you have seen that I am imbued with great and divine power, and you are unsure of what I am capable.  You are likewise unsure who your allies will be when you return to Dagger Falls.  This mission of yours, this dream of reclaiming Thistle Ridge has seemed to be a fool's errand the entire time, and you doubt that you were even supposed to succeed, and you wonder if there aren't some in very high places that are actively working against you.  Of course there are, and I might even share their names if you can get the peace terms entrenched that I've asked for.  What say you…?"

Charrah is quiet now and awaits your response.  You notice now the darkness in the room has deepened, and that only a bit of light from an unseen source outlines her shapely form from behind, most of her features fading into shadow.  Likewise, darkness creeps in from the corners of the room, occluding nearly all but Charrah and Jeska, who are now locked in a challenging glare in the last bit of light in Charrah's Chambre.

[[Knowledge Occult/Arcana: Jasper suspects that the 'portal' you were looking at was a Clairvoyance spell, which is a Rank 4 spell.]]

---
Source: Email from Les Blackwell, "Charrah's Chambre - End of Last Session Narrative", 5 May 2025 (DM handout, pre-battle confrontation scene)
Keywords: Charrah, Chambre, Chrysalis, Thistle Ridge, Town Hall, Coventina, Maglubiyet, Soothing Mistress, Boxfray, clairvoyance, dragon, Yellow Tooth, parlay, slave orb, Jeska, Jasper, Lucan, Mari, Ser Rowan
