--- Page 1 ---
11 Mirtul, 1483 DR (possibly) – Notes from the Journal of
the Drurginz Captain
I am writing with borrowed pen, ink and paper, and though I don’t recall ever writing a thing before
this, it turns out I have a competent and bold hand, despite the cold.
There is much to record, if time and our enemies will permit it. I’ll start with a description of the
terrible place we’re trapped in, followed by a short accounting of the day’s events, and conclude
with a bit about myself, my companions, and our current predicament.
The Shadowfell
Despite what many think, the Shadowfell is not
complete darkness, but rather a dim, obscene and
twisted version of our own world. It is dark, and
there is little or no colour to be seen. The sun
never gets high in the sky, rather rising dimly in the
southeast to perhaps fifteen degrees in the south,
before setting in the southwest. At its zenith and
brightest it gave off the same light as a clouded
full moon. It was enough to see by, and to make
out our surroundings, but only briefly and with
great strain.
What impresses itself most forcefully upon the
body, and upon the spirit, is the cold. We reckon it
is winter here, as there is a mix of ash and snow
drifting in the air, accumulating here and there,
making our boots report muffled crunches with
each step. Our breath is frosty (though it appears
to issue forth slowly), and the air is cold. There is
no amount of clothing that we donned today that
could eliminate the cold, which seems to
penetrate to our very cores. This cold is
something deeper than a lack of sun or fire, which
I’ll elaborate on later if given the chance. The
snow and ash were not so much falling as drifting
about.
Aside from the cold, the next noticeable thing is
that all senses seemed dulled here, or there is too
little to sense. Aside from being dark, it is quiet,
and everything is muffled as though heard through
a blanket or other impediment. We smelled

--- Page 2 ---
nothing today, and even the foulest scenes we discovered that should emit an odour did not. When
we stopped to eat what little we had packed away, none of the food had any taste, and hardly any
texture. It was like a dim memory of eating and didn’t satisfy anyone.
I was healed and awoken by Chrysalis in a ruin that mirrors obscenely a building from Thistle Ridge.
It was of roughly human size and proportions, but the walls never seem plumb, though it was
difficult to ascertain exactly which way they were listing. The stones were irregular at best, with
there being none of the square masonry one finds in any decent settlement or old castle
throughout the Realms. And black thorny creepers cover everything like an evil ivy.
Throughout the day, the Captain and I discussed several times what reason the Shadowfell must
look this way, and how it comes to be. Why does it obscenely mock our plain? Whence do the
changes on our plain replicate here, in such fashion, and by what hands? Or do we indeed have it
the wrong way round? This question Monarch turned her nose up at, but I saw that it gave the
Dalesman and the Sembian pause and further solemnified our already dour journey.
The ruins of the Shadowfell Thistle Ridge are laid out in more or less the same fashion, though
everything is twisted, as I’ve said. The larger buildings remain, and we got a close look at the insane
version of the Academy, which I’ll talk further on in a moment. The ruins, being completely overrun
with the Black Creepers (as I call them, and the name has stuck), the erstwhile streets a jagged and
confusing mess of broken and blasphemous cobbles, it was very difficult to navigate, especially
when combined with the nearly complete sensory deprivation of the place and the cold. And there
are local critters to be wary of as well. Some we could have expected; the same breed of shadow-
goblins that Chrysalis fought with and I witnessed in service to Charrah seem to stem from this
place, though they are less well organized and armed, they are considerably more difficult to kill or
capture, as they move from shadow-to-shadow with ease, and their harassments, though not
overwhelming, fatal or concerted, are a constant nuisance.
Mean-eyed black birds glide noiselessly through the dead and twisted canopy of the Shadow Oaks,
their faces and bodies ragged with missing feathers, some clearly undead, such is their state.
Black rats the size of small dogs watch our every move with cloudy pale grey eyes that would
appear sightless if not for their conspicuous interest in our passing. Crueler things crawl between
the broken stones and creepers and then slink off into the shadow before their form can be fully
observed.

--- Page 3 ---
The Shadow Oaks (again, my taxonomy) are very similar to the Cormanthor Oak, and this as well
has been the source of some debate on natural philosophy. They are roughly the same size and
shape, and though these are slightly more twisted and gnarly than their Terran cousins, most other
details seem similar enough that I’m sure we’ll see these trees in a different light, as it were, if we
ever escape here. Jasper is sure that the Cormanthor Oak is from the Fey Realm, but now we all
have our doubts. This place sows doubt just as it saps warmth.
Finally, I shall mention that we were able to take our bearings just as the sun, such as it is, began to
descend in the southwest. For it was at this hour that we could make out, like shadows behind
shadows, the distant features that are the vulgar replicas of the Desertsmouth Mountains of our
home. Perhaps larger and steeper, there they were all the same, in about the right place and
distance from us, so that we had some sounding of this heretofore unknowable landscape. As the
sun nestled between two particular mountains, Jasper gave a weak smile, and pointed to and
named them and four others, from south to north, saying things like “On that one is the great orc
fort, Gruumish, and there, two mountains north of it, where the sun is just disappearing is Castle
Radiance. That last one up north is Tethyamar. And that way there” he said, with a look of
determination and satisfaction as he turned roughly a quarter and pointed “is north.”
We are lost, but not hopelessly so.
The Day’s Events
As I’ve said, I awoke under the care of Chrysalis, in a ruined cottage in this realm’s version of Thistle
Ridge. Chrysalis had fought with Loki in her subterranean lair, and unfortunately (for them, if not for
me) followed her into a trap. While the matronly halfling, Mari, saw me to my feet after healing me
as much as she could, the rest of the team was going through the packs of some Shadowvar that
they had presumably slain just
before coming here. From what the
Captain has told me, and she is the
only one that will speak plainly with
me, they fought and killed the
Shadowvar in Loki’s final chambre,
and found their packs waiting here,
on the other side of the veil. Once
they emerged from the tunnels, and
realized they were in the Shadowfell,
they noticed the bags in a little camp
nearby, sacked it, and moved on
quickly. They recovered themselves
and my person in the little ruin
before having a quiet team meeting
just beyond earshot of me, and the
stout Ser Rowan (who it should be
mentioned is polite if not friendly –
but one can hardly expect

--- Page 4 ---
camaraderie in such a place as this) who was tasked with guarding me.
I didn’t catch much of the deliberations of the rest of Chrysalis, the noise in this place traveling
such as it does, but it was clear that they were angry and not perfectly aligned on what to do next. I
caught the downcast Monarch mutter to herself, as though reciting words she heard earlier “She
plays only pawns, though she is but a bishop. If you can corner and eliminate her, you must. But be
wary; if she appears vulnerable, your eyes are mistaken, and your feet are close to a snare.”
Monarch shook her head and pounded a fist into the other hand, but then regained her composure,
said something to the two young men, and then we were off.
We made our way through the creeper-choked ruins I have described above, and made first for the
Academy, which was only some hundreds of feet from the little ruin we recovered in. By this time,
the team were wearing ill-fitting Shadowvar winter things, as they had come, understandably,
unprepared. Mari threw the warmest cloak they had over my thin shoulders, and gave me a look as
though an apology, and we ambled on through the confusing darkness. We swatted at some of the
mean things I have mentioned, and endured frustrating skirmishes from the shadow goblins, none
of whom we were able to mark with a blade or a spell before they shrank back into darkness.
We crept through the darkness of the Shadowfell early morning, and could make out the Academy
ahead of us; a great darkness behind lesser shadows. We could make out movement just at the
edge of our vision, shadows creeping through shadows, and knew that the place was guarded
against us. Lucan speculated this was expected and deliberate. He spoke of the similarities
between this terrible place, and a report he read of the hauntings in Thistle Ridge. He recited from
his notes the following;
“...I would have said we entered the Shadowfell,
if not for the description of the assault of the
shadowy fiend and the harrowing tale of the
Oakbough girl and her partner at the Inn. We
weren’t in the Shadowfell, but rather it was
leaking into our world through some obscene
artefact, and providing the Negative Energy
needed for the monsters inside.”
“Magistrate Winters may have been right, and if
he was there may be a way from here, into the
Academy, and back into our plain” Lucan
speculated, and we strained to hear his muffled
voice in this unnatural place.
“We will see” said the Captain, her voice full of
doubt, and we moved on.
It is likely that there is an entrance from here to there in the Academy, or so we speculate based on
how thoroughly it is guarded; goblins were everywhere, and they may have expected us. Indeed, we
had been seen by a hundred black denizens of this nightmare realm before we were a hundred feet
from the twisted and looming Academy, and we got no closer. Just as the Captain was quietly

--- Page 5 ---
speculating with the two boys about their prospects of cutting through some dozens of goblins (to
their credit, they did not seem discouraged from that task), a great shadow passed overhead, and
then settled down heavily on the roof of the Academy, great wings beating motes of snow and
shadow along with loosened roof tiles every direction.
“Gelzamael” was the whispered warning
from the capable hedge wizard, clutching
something small in his hand that he looked
to many times, while examining the dragon.
“This place is held against us apurpose”
was the reply of the Captain. “We must
find another path…”
Indeed, there was a great shadowy dragon
craning its neck thither and hither, sniffing
loudly at the air, and we decided to sneak
away while we still had the option. When
we surmised that we were safely out of
range of the dragon, we hid again in another
unknowable ruin to deliberate.
“I’m not so sure that was Gelzamael” said
the Sembian, who was locked now in some
struggle with the captain. They did not
agree on our course, and would not for the
rest of the day. Again, such is the nature of this place, that doubt can take hold where previously
inscrutable leadership and duty prevailed. “That thing was much larger…”
“It was him” interrupted the Captain, “As sure as I’m standing here. I danced with that thing up
close, and sent him back here. In our plain, summoned as he was, he was but a fraction of his true
size and strength. He is here now looking for us, with all his power and rage and pride. See now…”
and the captain ducked beneath a window, and grabbing the Sembian by the back of the head
directed his gaze skyward. “It flies to the Inn, seeking us.” Lucan relented, and the matter was
agreed upon; a great shadow dragon stalks these ruins, hunting us. There is no safe passage here.
“If we fight through the goblins and the dragon, and whatever else they have planned for us, we’ll
have to then fight our way out of the concentrated terrors we know to be in the Academy, or the Inn,
or the Merchants’ Hall, whichever we choose.” The wizard said, forlorn. “Though I would like to
take one of these routes, and begin to address the hauntings and the girls, this is not the way…”
Lucan again produced some intelligence, reading notes from a book he carried. “Tergus Clarandal,
1439…” He began, before reading aloud the following passage
The four girls—Lilac Alavandor, my Lilly, Poppy Sweetberry, and Alaventa Alavaxi—play
together as they always do. However, today, Alaventa seems different, her usual joy
subdued, a faint shadow dimming her spirit. This worries me deeply. Senthia once shared a

--- Page 6 ---
memory from her childhood, recalling the year the Alavaxi first came to Thistle Ridge. She
overheard the eldermen discussing their arrival from the caves of the Iron Hole.
The eldermen speculated that the Alavaxi may have traversed deeper and more obscure
depths than the Underdark to get here, and for what purpose they knew not, nor have I ever
learned it.
These thoughts haunt me now as I observe Alaventa. Could there be some Shadow inside
her? Is there a connection between her current demeanor and the dark origins of her
ancestors’ arrival? The fertile soils, the shadowy history of my family, the Alavaxi elders who
disappeared, and now this—everything seems to converge on that hidden passage and the
shadows it harbors.
“The Iron Hole it is then, unless you have some elf-trick you haven’t shown us yet, my captain..” the
Sembian muttered with unwarranted contempt, the fear and doubt of this place working its way
into his manners.
“The Iron Hole it is” the captain nodded, keeping her composure.
Knowing which way was north, we set out. Jasper and Lucan argued over which direction to go,
Jasper insisting that he knew which way was north, Lucan insisting that we weren’t headed ‘exactly’
north, but north northwest. Their dispute, though born of genuine conviction on both sides, proved
a vexation, and the Captain had to split them up several times over the course of our first hour of
travel. I think it was likely around early evening when we set out from Thistle Ridge, in an attempt to
put the dragon and other threats behind us, but it is impossible to tell. We navigated through a dark
ravine choked with Shadow Oaks and Black Creepers, bundling in a hopeless effort against the
cold. I would have thought we went a full mile, but looking back, the ruins were still nearby,
perhaps a quarter mile off, now vanishing in the last cold and pale light of the obscene mockery of
the sun.
“This place is treacherous, a giant trap,
mum!” Ser Rowan complained to Mari, as
we all looked crestfallen at how little
progress we had made. “But we must keep
going. Gelzamael will still smell our blood
from this distance. Through the darkness,
let’s away!” And here the great Cormyrean
showed his quality; summoning what
bravery remained to him, Ser Rowan rallied
us from our dread, and we marched. North,
or there about.
Night falls like a hammer in this place. One
moment there is a pale light in the tops of
the trees, illuminating the cruel birds that
spy on us. And then it falls. Darkness.
Darkness like I’ve never felt. I know that I

--- Page 7 ---
have tangled in the past with creatures that wield it; Loki is one such, and manipulating darkness
for her is second nature. But to be in a place that is defined by it, which is the very essence of it, is
different. It is an oblivion, a cold oblivion, hopeless and biting.
But, we could summon some light. The wand Jasper carries, which would brightly light a large
room in our plain, here produces a dim light to about twenty feet. Our torches burned likewise dim,
and their heat was hardly enough to make a bare palm outstretched above them uncomfortable.
Mari was unable to summon light with her divine magics at all.
As Jasper did what he could to light our path, and as we stumbled through a stubborn forest that
seems purposefully to check our advance with trips and falls, there stirred within me the certain
knowledge that I could wield magic. The memory of it lay in the dimmest alcoves of my mind, faint
as a candle behind frosted glass, and I know that if I could but read some words, I could prepare
myself. But Jasper alone carries a spellbook here, and when I broached the subject, he affected
about him an unkind expression of rebuke so thorough that it took his friends by surprise. He
looked as though he might strike me, and but for the Captain interposing herself, I think he may
have done so, or worse. Though I could hear only what this dark realm would permit through its
unnatural baffling, I did catch Jasper yelling at the captain.
“It was HER exodus WITH HIM, that was the reason for Coventina’s murder. SHE killed the girl to
escape with THIS MAN. Why should we give HIM anything?!” The captain was able to calm the boy
after a while, and he returned to his senses, with a look of confusion, doubt and disappointment. I
do not think the boy meant to give such offence; he carries a grief that I cannot fathom, and this
place sharpens every wound until composure itself becomes a casualty. I bear him no ill will for it.
We continued on, for how long it is
impossible to say; there are no stars
wheeling overhead, no moon either.
There is just complete blackness, and
our slow advance which defies our
understanding of space and motion.
Our feeble lights, which Chrysalis
argued over the use of; who knows
what can see our lights and from what
distance in this place, did provide us
some guidance and reassurance. For
after a time, we walked through a
clearing and then came suddenly to a
twisted stone fence that stretched into
the darkness left and right of us.
Jasper had regained his composure,
and he smiled in the weak light of our
magic. “We’re at the edge of the old
fields of Thistle Ridge, and headed the
right direction, I think.”

--- Page 8 ---
He thought for a moment, grasping his chin and murmuring to himself. “Yes” he said at last. “That
way” and he pointed a little to our right, “is north. This fence runs roughly east-west, as we’d
expect if we’ve hit it while travelling north from the ruin. And that way” he said, now pointing in the
direction we were headed, past the fence and a little to the left “Is Alavandor’s Farm…” the words
died in the cold muted air of the place, and the Sembian looked even more forlorn. I have learned
he is an Alavandor, and the idea of an obscene thing in this realm styled after his family’s estate
must be troubling.
Jasper continued. “And after that, is Clarendal’s, a bit more north northwest. And due north of
that, the Iron hole. We aren’t lost…we aren’t…” he didn’t sound so sure, but the Captain agreed
with him.
“If you’re right” Monarch said “then we’ll see the farm in a few hours, if there is such a thing as an
hour here. And we’ll know you have it figured out. Let’s keep moving. I’d like more distance
between us and that dragon and any servitors it may have…”
“Too late, mum, listen” came the words of the giant Cormyrean. And with this, we could hear the
unnaturally muted sounds of twigs snapping, and just then pale eyes gleaming from the darkness
reflecting our feeble light. And then we were set upon; goblin, crow and rat came from every
direction, harassing us as the Captain urged us onward, imploring Jasper to keep us going in the
right direction while the rest of Chrysalis fought a rolling battle with the cruel fauna of this unholy
place.
This attack was more focused and determined than the harassments we’d endured in Thistle
Ridge. The rats would not relent, and we slew many. The crows too dove and dove again,
attempting to blind us with their sharp beaks, and those too we left broken on the cold dark ground.
The goblins fought harder, and one or two of these I think we left dead as we stumbled and fought
our way through the Dark Creepers and the shadowy vermin. When we had killed a score of pests
and a few of the goblins, the intensity of the attack began to wane, and the Captain declared “we’ll
take one of them now”, and though the goblins were slippery, Jasper managed to entangle one that
was routing with his hedge magics, and we had a prisoner.
The loathsome thing was small, but strong and
defiant. Despite being held fast by the cruel
barbed vines of the terrible forest, and finding
himself at the end of Monarch’s fabled foil, it wore
a cruel and defiant smile, and wriggled and fought
against his restraints, even when threatened to be
still. This was not a Yellow Tooth goblin, but a
Shadow Goblin, of which I had seen very few. The
Yellow Tooth fear Monarch and hate her with a
capacity unknowable to kinder races. But this
monster looked her in the eye and laughed at her
threats. “You may kill me, elf-bitch” it hissed at
her in complete belligerence, “but that will not be
enough…no…you’ll see…you’ll see soon…”

--- Page 9 ---
All efforts to interrogate the creature were fruitless. It was fearless, and indeed, seemed to
welcome death and pain. The mortals among us despaired and implored Monarch to be done with
it; destroy it and let’s keep moving, but she had figured it out.
“Not afraid to die, eh? Everything fears something, and many things are worse than death. I’ve
lived long enough to know that. No, I think I’ll keep you. You will make a fine servant in the Fey
Realm, where you can bring flowers and drink to my children and theirs and theirs, for a thousand
years. You’ll serve my family until time itself dies. Put him in a bag, gentlemen, and let’s bring him
forth from this shadow.” The creature’s face softened at these words, as it saw the cruel
indifference on Monarch’s face. That this was not sport for her, just fact. Its fate carved in stone by
her hand, the Shadow Goblin was tested and failed.
“No, Elf-bitch! You kill me! I will not touch flowers or serve your children! You kill me, or she
will…yes, she will!”
That piqued our interest. Gelzamael is a male, and Loki surely doesn’t care a fig for the fate of this
goblin. “Tell me who ‘She’ is, monster” Monarch began “and I will spare you, with the death you
crave.”
The goblin smiled, laughed and whispered “Shevah Ghost Eater” was its words. “Shevah Thrice
Tall, Shevah Soft Footed, Shevah World Walker. She will find you, and bring you to Gelzamael. She
will find me, and then you. Shevah finds all.” And then it laughed again, and rolled back its head,
deliberately pressing its pale neck against the tip of Eclose. Lucan and Jasper were about to start
asking more questions, when the Captain pressed the foil into the offered flesh, and with gurgling
laughter, the goblin died.
“We could have learned more about this Shevah, Jeska” Lucan demanded angrily. “What, or who
she is. What she can do…”
“You weren’t listening, Sembian. Ghost Eater. Thrice Tall. Soft Footed. It is a bugbear, and they
fear it. Shevah is hunting us already, and we have lingered here too long. Time to move” and we
were off again, with a new terror in our hearts. What manner of nightmare would a bugbear, born of
this cold void, hunting us with purpose, be?
And so we pressed on, though our progress had slowed considerably. I was now in no condition to
march, being sapped of strength and now raked with new wounds on my flesh from the shadowy
vermin that plagued us. The wounds looked infected, and the pain of them was intense. Ser

--- Page 10 ---
Rowan now had to bear me, and I clung
to his back as well as I could while he
lumbered through the unforgiving
landscape, darkness and cold.
Whether by effort, luck or the will of our
enemy, we passed an hour or so
unmolested, and came to a shallow
ditch with a partially frozen creek; ice at
either edge of the creek opened to an
oily substance that flowed slowly,
occasionally bubbling silently like a
primordial swamp. “I know where we
are” Jasper said, though he didn’t look
proud of the declaration. “We are only
a half mile from the Farm, though I
would have guessed us much closer if
not for this feature, he said, pointing to
the unwholesome liquid while turning
up his nose.
Ser Rowan had put me down, and I sat on a rock and watched the Captain take in her men one by
one. Each carried wounds from myriad battles they had fought since stepping into the bowels of
Thistle Ridge, before my rescue, and ever since. Heavier than their wounds, and the fatigue of
constant flight, was the despair of the place. Even the indefatigable matronly halfling was
squatting low to the ground, her head in her hands, and I think she was weeping. The boys were
breathing heavy, the fog of their breath lolling about the air unnaturally, their faces long and eyes
dull. Ser Rowan sat next to me, trying to warm his hands inside his tabard, while muttering what
sounded like nonsense to himself. Monarch shook her head and thought a moment. “We rest” she
ordered. “We can’t go on like this. We are being hunted, and likely we’ll be caught up, but we are
at the end of our endurance. Stay here…” and with this she made a short scouting of the area, and
returned to gather us.
Monarch found a dense thicket near the creek, still low in the ditch, but high enough to be dry.
“We’ll rest here a bit” she declared, and started to cut away at the dark creepers with a dagger. Ser
Rowan joined in, and before long, we were nestled in the little camp that I now enjoy the comfort of.
We are some dozens of feet into the thicket, and we have braved a little fire, and though it gives
only the fraction of warmth you would expect, it has lifted our spirits a little.
Recall
After being ordered by the Captain, Lucan has shared some writing materials with me, which I now
employ for this very purpose. I am cold, tired and hungry, but I cannot sleep. And anyway, the
other mortals have all laid their heads down, and while Ser Rowar snores, Monarch and I remain
awake, her on the watch, and I recording my memories, as I’ve been instructed.
I have two sorts of memories; those I know I have, and those I think I have.

--- Page 11 ---
What I know is this; several weeks ago I awoke in the chambre that Chrysalis discovered me in the
first time they tangled with Loki. I don’t remember anything before that, though I was mercilessly
interrogated by Loki every day on the matter. She asked me about Zhents (I am one, I think) and
about wizards (I am one of those too, I think), and a great deal about places like Yulash and the
settlements of the Moonsea. I have no clear memories of those things, but I know what they are
(which I’ll talk about in a moment). She thought me a stout prisoner with unlimited resolve, as I
offered none of the specifics she was looking for. I just didn’t have them, and I wouldn’t lie.
I know that I have been her prisoner for the
entirety of my memory, save for the last
‘day’ or whatever we’re calling this time, if
that is a real thing here, in the Shadowfell.
I have been tortured almost every day, and
Loki told me some things that I surmise to
be true.
Loki killed me, twice at least. She did so
to power the orb that she kept nearby in
my torture chambre. In the first instance,
my death powered the orb, and she
wrought some mischief with it that she
wouldn’t disclose to me. She said that the
next day, my corpse just rolled over and
back to life I sprang, such as I was able, to
her surprise. She said that I didn’t know
what had happened before, just as I recall
everything now. I have only her word, but
some of it rings true. She said she killed me a second time so that she’d have ‘options available’ to
her (which I now take to mean opening a portal to the Shadowfell), but my second death didn’t
power the orb, to her dismay. I think she tried several times, but she’s only confessed to the two
instances.
To resume the account: she had me on that slab for weeks before Chrysalis stormed through the
doors, and killed Charrah and all her generals, or almost all. She killed the Sunite girl that Jasper
hates me over to effect an escape in two parts; first by teleporting to her lair in the catacombs
beneath Thistle Ridge, and thence through an opening to the Shadowfell paid for with the blood of
the victim. I was in Loki’s chambre for several days before Chrysalis again stormed in, this time to

--- Page 12 ---
find Loki supported by other Shadowvar. Of
course, that was inadequate defense against
Chrysalis, but it may have all been part of the
trap I am currently in; for Monarch chased
after Loki, mistaking prey and predator. And
here we are.
Before I am forced to retire my pen for the
night, I should record that I seem to be
familiar with a good many things I have no
direct recollection of; the cities of the
Moonsea (some of them now ruins, though I
recall them when they weren’t), how to read a
spellbook, who the gods are, how to read a
ledger, and other things besides. If I could be
given some resources, I might yet prove of
service to Chrysalis, and thereby earn
whatever trust a man without a past may be
entitled to. The lads dislike me, and perhaps with cause; the Captain’s mind is unknowable and
formidable. But they are good people in desperate straits, and I would rather prove myself worthy
of their company than despair of it.
This brings me to some notes on my company, which I’d like to get in order. I will start with the
Captain…
…she has just stood up, and is now drawing Eclose and rousing the others. The enemy has found
us…
Shadowfell Rules
Shadow Melancholia
Almost all non-Shadowfell natives will suffer from Shadow Melancholia within an hour of arrival in
the plain. This manifests as an inescapable sense of cold and despair. It effects creatures from
different planes and different natures to varying degrees;
Prime Material Inhabitants
• -1 to all saving throws, -2 to their worst saving throw
• -4 to save vs. fear and negative emotion effects (total, does not stack with the above)
• -1 to all skill rolls
• -2 to all Dex and Cha skill rolls
Fey Inhabitants (including Jasper and Jeska)
• -2 to all saving throws, -3 to their worst saving throw
• -4 to save vs. fear and negative emotion effects (total, does not stack with the above)

--- Page 13 ---
• -2 to all skill rolls
• -3 to all Dex and Cha skill rolls
Light and Heat
• Mundane sources of light emit dim light to
either their bright light radius or ½ their dim
light radius, whichever is greater.
• Mundane sources of fire/heat damage burn
half as hot, doing ½ damage
• Divine light sources work as follows
Less than 5th level does not function
o
5th level function like mundane light
o
sources
• Divine sources of fire/heat work as follows
Less than 5th level does not function
o
5th level function like mundane
o
fire/heat sources
• Arcane light sources work as follows
1-4th level function like mundane sources
o
5th level function normally
o
• Arcane fire/heat works as follows
1-4th level function like mundane sources
o
5th level function normally
o
• Mundane healing works at ½ effect
• Divine sources of healing work as follows
1-4th level heal with ½ effect
o
5th level heals with -1 per die or level
o
• Arcane sources of healing work as follows
1-4th level heal with -1 per die or level
o
5th level works normally
o