12 Tarsakh, 1483 DR 
The Host 
I think a lot of people believe that the Thistle Ridge Expedition started a month ago, when heroes starting collecting to compete in the contest.  But for most of us that are doing the work of soldiering and building, it really started today, encamped at the base of the escarpment, in the safety of Gribbons’ Farm with two of our sister platoons nearby. Assembled were the following; 
• 
Chrysalis, with it’s .vemembers, a wagonand pony, a riding dog for Mrs. Thickwickleand a.neLantern Hound 

• 
2 Spearmen (of note, Pvt III Dun’lodan Millstone,.rstof Tethyamar’s folk in the Sunblades) 

• 
2 Foresters (Violet & Daffodil Newharvest ofDaggerford) 

• TheNewharvestHounds,Manny&Chuck(Lowstead Wolfhounds)

• Sgt. +4 men, all on foot, heavy crossbows 
o NoTrain (allmencarrytheirsupplieson their backs) 

o Chief Engineer Gamling ‘Swelter’ Hammerfall (a dwarven engineer, late of the 
FDL)
• 
Billy Mason (Journeyman Mason from Charity) 

o Train 
• 
Medium wagon with 2 ponies (Swelter’s shop) 

• 
Largewagon with 2drafthorses(containinga smallsawmill)

That is the complete list of the 59 people, 27 horses, 3 ponies, 5 dogs and 9 wagons that set out on this .nespring morning to start the work of reclaiming Thistle Ridge. I am also traveling with my bonded culver, Mareeseah (she is a Swift rather than a dove), and Chrysalis travels with 2 cages and doves. 
The.rstobjective of the campaign is Greenwood Farm, where I am now writing by lamplight in the command tent. So far so good! This is an abandoned farm with a good stone structure remaining, and .ne soil to start a new settlement.Captain Monarch chose this as the .rst objective to ensure a continuityof supply between Gribbons’ (and by extension Dagger Falls), and defensible redoubt for the next objectives. Everyone in the command group agreed without reservation with the decision. 

First Breakfast 
We often make jest of the small folk, over their appetites and extra meals, and I’ve heard many of my human friends talk about ‘.rstbreakfast’, ‘second breakfast’ and others, making light of our smaller kin.  But what most don’t realize is that Frist Breakfast is an important celebration to the small folk, and is a traditional meal prepared and shared at the outset of a great task, journey or campaign. To be fair, in many hal.ingcommunities the threshold for what constitutes a great task or journey can be small, and they do celebrate First Breakfast with all the changing seasons, new moons, and rites of passage for any member of their community.  But this morning we are on the edge of great campaign, with 
our host andmany others assembled to wish us off.  I heardthe Lt. comment that “it is more like ‘last breakfast’, isn’t it, before we begin our campaign and tighten our belts”, to which Sgt. Thickwickle responded “dear, that is at the very least a pessimistic outlook on these trays of bacon, and at worst an indictment of my abilityin the .eld.  No, this is the .rstof many great breakfasts we’ll share, if not inthe .eld, then when we return!  By Yondolla’s Ladle, my good Lt., please get a plate! You’re the last one with empty hands!” 
Assembled with us this morning were many good allies and friends.  Most of the eoldermen of Gribbons were in attendance with their families, as well as all of the 1st platoon of Sun Blades and some of the 2nd that were off-duty this morning. Mayor Winters was here as well as Magistrate Saddler.  Therewerealsotwodozen hal.ings, which represent I later learned the entirety of that population from Gribbons,and they were the .rst onesstirring in the morning. Before even the Magistrates were looking for the .rst grey signs ofsunrise, the small folk (including our own Cook and her mother, and the Newharvest girls from our 4th squad) were stoking .res, setting pots and kettles and the large picnic tables that had been brought for this purpose. 
Us large folk that know First Breakfast to be a celebration for the small folk and a veneration to Yondalla have often asked if there will be a prayer given, and are always told some version of “our prayers are delivered by the warm food you take in, the more the better, and answered by the good deeds fueled by it later”. But what most haven’t seen, is that their faithful (which seems to be every hal.ing) gather around as the .rst .re is struck, and joinhands in a solemn prayer together.  They commune in that cold dark hour, before preparing a feast for the rest of us, an neither entreat us to abandon ourwarmbedsoreven offerthanks once we’ve hadour .ll.  This is a sel.ess gift from their people to ours. 
The breakfast itself was a merry affair, with music, some dance and much laughter.  The food was of the greatest quality I could imagine; large platters stacked high with rashers of bacon, some fried, some smoked, some candied.  Forthose with a taste for .sh, therewere platters of smoked bass and grilled trout, caught fresh from the Tesh yesterday, their skin crisp from the .re, seasoned with thyme and parsley.At either end of each table, towering basketsover.owed with hearth-baked bread, still warm from the oven, with trays of butter, honey and creamy honey-butter. To accompany the bread, there were delicate .akypastries, .lled with stewedapples and pears, sweetened with honey and syrup. Trays of cheese brimmed with wedges of sharp cheddar and creamy brie, as well as fresh curds and thick cream which many spread over their bread or cheese.  Of last year’s preserves, there were jars at every table of pears, blue berries, raspberries, strawberries, and mixtures of the lot, some sweetened with syrup, and these thick and sticky jams found their way onto endless stacks of buttered toast.  There were large bowls of eggs and porridge, and milk, mead and wines.llingin thelast open space of every table. We shall not eat this well again for who-knows-how-long, and so our host did the honour of ‘praying’ at First Breakfast by doing their best to clear the plates and tables of the .ne meal spread out before us.  We were unsuccessful. 
Saddler gave two services in the morning,the .rst at Prime withhis .ock(which is roughly 10 of our number, a handful of FDL soldiers, and a dozen folks from Gribbons)before breakfast, and the second as our host was assembled to depart up the ridge.  The latter was a moving benediction accompanied by the junior magistrates (including our own) walking among the ranks with censers. Saddler is more pastoral and less militant in his approach,whichdespitemyoccupation,I.nd endearing. His closing prayer, delivered as the sun suddenlycrestedand.lledthevalleywithit’s golden warmth (do they teach timing at the Seminary?) was full of optimism and kind words for our leadership, as well as the Captain herself. 
“Morninglord, as we see you greet these brave heroes and bath them in your warmth at this, the very moment of their departure, we see that your light shines on man, dwarf, hal.ing and elf alike.We see that we are all equals in your light, and that the leadership and character of the ancient folk is as valued as that of your greatest mortal servants.  We are thankful for your light that limns her as the Captain of this great venture, and your signal that hers is the authority to command all; men, dwarvesand hal.ingsin ourcommon and noblecause.” 
With this, Captain Monarch offereda hand on her left shoulder, just above the heart, her kind’s gesture of sincere gratitude, and we were off.

The Journey 
It is only about 5 miles from the top of the escarpment to Greenwood Farm, but with our heavy train, it took us more than 2 hours just to get everyone to the top of the switchback road that has been maintained for this purpose.  Seeing the slow pace of advance, 
Chrysalis set off aheadof us to recon the pathand the farm itself, accompanied by Lt.
Riverstone (1st Company) and 4 of her Foresters.  I heard that their journey was uneventful, but that they found something troubling at the farm.  What this is we haven’t yet been told, but Lt. Farmountain assures me that it is nothing we aren’t prepared for. 
Of the main body of the host, with our many wagons, horses and ponies, we travelled slowly through the fair wood of Cormanthor. We took courage from our numbers, and our Foresters were in orbit around the progress of the train, and by the end of the journey they came back with no bad news, but with a pair large deer that have been the main portion of my dinner tonight, having been made into a wonderful stew that fed the entire camp. 
I don’t know why so many fear Cormanthor. Some say it is a troubling place that doesn’t want our kind, and others say it is actively trying to push men out.  But I see as .ne a forestas one might read about in Cormyrean children’s tales, with an endless supply of the best wood we could pray for.  Indeed, there will one day I don’t doubt, be much money to be made sending wood down the river.  But I’m losing my focus. 
I enjoyed the trip through Cormanthor, even with the regularity of wagons getting stuck, and the difficulty of .ndinga private place to do private things in so openaforest (thegreat stories of heroes and deeds never tell you that half of your challenges on campaign are around your bowels).  It is easy-goingonfootorhorseback,theairisclearand.ne,and sometimes feels more like drinking than breathing.  The myriad scents of the forest are sometimes nearly intoxicating, and the mirthful music of birds (of which there are more beautiful species than I can name) is unchecked by our clumsy passage.  Indeed, I think they sang us welcome. And this is how we came to Greenwood Farm, our train arriving several bells before sundown. 

Greenwood Farm 
It is easy to see why this location was settled some decades ago. The building that remains, and those moldering nearby, sit atop a small hill, with a very gentle slop that divides the area north and south, with the village in the middle. At the base of the north side of the slope is a very large, clear pond. The Engineer says that it is special as it is both spring fed and stream fed.  I’m doing my best to understand his trade and to learn as much of his work as possible, so I can faithfully represent what he says and does in this report, but I have to confess that I could not make out with my untrained eyes what he saw in the ripplesof that.ne, cool pond.  But the rest of his assessment of the area I did understand. He found the old well partway up the hill, as our men began clearing the thick brush that hides this area (for in this part of the forest, the trees are mostly close-knit pines, .rs andbalsams, hugging the pond and choking the small hill and the old village), and he explained that it too is spring-fed, and indeed he produced perfectly clear water from it presently. 
He then showed me to the other side of the hill. Again, as the men cleared and burned the brush about the place, more old building foundations were discovered, including the latrines and barns.  Master Swelter explained that the “water table is divided by that hill and the limestone beneath it; the south drains far to the west-south-west in the Sukiskyn River, while the north drains directly by small streams and falls into the Tesh, south east”.  As I mentioned earlier, this business is half looking after where you do your business, and Greenwood Farm was likely settled based on the original settler’scon.dence in their comforts and quality of the water. 
As I write this tonight, the men and women have been very busy, and the greatest bon.re I’ve ever seen is currently blazing, and Ser Reginald is ‘singing’ (it’s more like roaring, but the men love his songs) loud enough to wake 
the dead, and Ithink a .ask or two of
spirits may have been passed around, though not in front of the officers. The energy and spirit of our breakfast has held throughout the day, and continues to bolster our collective mood, now well past midnight.  We are happy to be on campaign, and are eager to face to morrow.


=== WORD SOURCE: Pre-Chapter 7 Content (additional/richer versions) ===
