13 Kythorn, 1480 DR 
GFD Notes: 
Here we learn of the foul-tasting denouement to the story of the Dark Garden. This story at least is concluded, if others are not. Report graciously provided by Administrator Reks after quite a bit of drinking one night (it might have been two). 
-GFD 
Situation Report: 
To: Captain Iolas Warburton of the Whitecloaks Subject: The Re-taking of Foot Hills Farm: Kythorn 13th Captain Iolas, 
A well-earned title indeed. 
As you are likely all too aware, the suspected 3rd infestation of Sharan Cults upon the Dales was indeed at Foot Hills Farm. The investigations of Ms. Estelmer confirmed this suspicion. 
On the morn of the 10th of Kythorn Magistrate Invictus and I led a small company (some 300 men) away from Dagger Falls to Foot Hills farm to rectify this situation. I must note here that I am indeed impressed by the faith in Amaunator the men of the Dales represent. Many of the 300 were in fact still recovering from wounds taken at the cleansing of Liberty Hill. Of note are the Dalehearth Companies, having already won much renown at Liberty Hill. They refused the rest they were offered and I do not believe we could have stopped them from joining this company had we tried. Proud men, those. 
Upon our approach to the farm mid-day on the 11th, Tuugan and I pushed ahead to gather some intel on the fortifications and the enemy we would face. The lands surrounding the farm showed no evidence that a battle against the undead would once again be waged. In fact, we found very little, until Tuugan 
came to me and led me to a desecrated shrine of Chauntea. There had indeed been a Ritual of Founding performed at the shrine. 
With this last assurance that our suspicions were correct Tuugan and I approached the farm itself. To our surprise, we did not find the resistance we were expecting. It seems that General Thunderstorm had gathered a host of SunBlades, 2nd Company 'Mountaineers'. With these 100 or so soldiers he had himself, that very morning, stormed the walls and taken the town. Some 80 to 100 cultists put up a mild resistance but proved no match for the Tormite and his host. 
It took more argument than it pleases me to admit for Tuugan and I to gain entry to the farm itself. Thunderstorm himself met us at the gates and initially refused us entry. Being a man of war, not one of faith, my status meant little to him. However, upon hearing that Invictus would arrive shortly with a host of some 300 men, Thunderstorm agreed it would be better to have Tuugan and I alone enter the 
town. Our reporting to Invictus that everything was well would, in his estimation, satisfy the Magistrate and prevent any further, and unwarranted carnage in the farm. A stubborn fool the Tormite, but it seems in the end a man of some semblance of thought none the less. 
There was a clean-up underway, the bodies of many dead cultists and Sun Blades (from both sides it would seem) were being removed from the streets. Some of the dead being prepared for honourable burial, the others being piled to be thrown upon a pyre. 
Some dozen cultists, having surrendered (it seems without the Dark Garden and the Black Hand of Tremaklin behind them their 'devotion' was far from what we faced at Liberty Hill), were being held in the town center. My questioning of them was short lived. 
It seems that Invictus grew tired of waiting for Tuugan and I to return, perhaps he suspected us dead, and had brought his army to the gates of the town. He was met there by Thunderstorm, who denied him entry. 
As an aside here, the scene that was playing out between these two, as I arrived back at the gates, was nothing short of ludicrous. Two very strong-willed men, both unwilling to respect the others authority, stood before their troops and literally screamed at one another. Like two spoiled children bickering over a spoonful of honey. 
Truly, Thunderstorm in his position is not required to follow any command of Invictus'. 
The General of the Sun Blades makes no oath to the Magistrates. However, considering the recent events, and the victory over the Dark Garden, one would think even a General would consent that it was a victory for Amaunator, not the men of the Dales. 
I surmise that Invictus felt the same. He accused Thunderstorm of being a traitor and of harbouring the enemy. This, of course, only goaded Thunderstorm all the more. The two armies, behind their respective leaders, began to form up, loosening blades in sheaths and presenting their shields for battle. 
The argument between the two men became even more heated, and their discourse turned more insulting. Neither man it seemed was actually thinking at all anymore. 
Perhaps the most surprising event of the day was the sudden appearance of Troia between the two men. When she arrived, I know not; I had thought that she had stayed behind at Liberty Hills to assist the clean-up. 
Nonetheless, there she was, standing firm, like a small piece of iron between the Hammer of Amaunator and the Anvil of Torm. She reached out to each man, and spoke softly to them. 
I would love to know what it was she said, as both men immediately began to calm. However, I was not given the opportunity to listen. The closest that any came to shedding blood that day were Tuugan and his brother Alaric. I suppose Thunderstorm must have made some admonishment of Chauntea in his anger. The creak of the massive bow Tuugan carries alerted me to the fact that he had the weapon at full draw, and aimed at the head of Thunderstorm. Tuugan's brother had immediately followed suit, but his bow was aimed at Tuugan. 
Only as the two leaders began to visibly calm at the words of Troia, did the brothers release the tension from their draws. In truth, the entire matter is a bit of blur to me. At one moment bloodshed was a certainty, in the next, the entire situation was de-escalated by Troia, the two leaders clasping each other by the wrist and apologies being made. 
Iolas, my feeling is that on that day, the poison of paranoia and hatred that the minions of Shar so willing spread infected all present at the gates. 
We may have ended the immediate threat of the Dark Garden, but the real threat that is the Poison of Shar is still upon us. 
Let us remain vigilant. 
Yours in Faith, 
Alystair, Aegis Pelegrinus.
