A Call for Bravery, Endurance and Honour! 
Alturiak 30, 1483 DR. 
By Order of the Governors’ Assembly, at its Seventh Sitting, Alturiak 21-29, 1483 DR, the establishment of the Thistle Ridge Reclamation and the creation of and authorization for the Adjudicating Committee to oversee the Reclamation is hereby announced to all citizens of Daggerdale, and all her allies notified forthwith. 
It is the will of the Assembly that a Company of suitable capability and virtue be Chartered to Reclaim the settlement known as Thistle Ridge Farm, to secure its walls and other properties, to hold and defend those properties from enemies current and future, and to see to the growth and prosperity of that settlement. 
The Adjudicating Committee, which is composed of i) Bishop Whitegate, ii) High Cultivar Oakdale, iii) Mayor Cassimar, iv) General Thunderstorm and v) Ambassador Whitmore (Charity), will receive applications from organizations with a Charter Militant, and those seeking a Temporary Charter Militant for the purposes of this endeavour.  They will select the 5 most suitable Companies and pit them in competition to test all the skills needed to carry out the Reclamation. 
The successful team will be given a Temporary Settlement Charter which will give them authority for the following; 
• 
To clear all hostile creatures from Thistle Ridge Farm and its surroundings. 

Congratulations, Adventurers! 
Ches 17, 1483 DR. 
You have been selected to participate in the Thistle Ridge Reclamation Competition.  You and other holders of Charters Militant will have a tenday to prove that you are the organization best suited to be chartered to Reclaim Thistle Ridge Farm, potentially becoming the lords and owners of that once-shining jewel in the eastern edge of Daggerdale. 
The Competition will begin on 19 Ches, 1483 DR, at a meeting of all participants and the Adjudicating Committee, in the Chauntean Chambre at Governors’ Hall, sharply at seven bells. Please present with your entire company at Full Readiness at that time. 
Master Adjudicant Arthur Whitmore (Ambassador to The Governors’ Assembly from Charity) will deliver the final details to the competition and signal its start.  In order to prepare each Company for the Competition, the Adjudicating Committee has provided the following to each; 
1. 
A copy of the Yellow Abbeye Booke of Surveys and Measures, 1440 DR Edition for Thistle Ridge Farm
