[Source: extracted from 17 Ches 1483 DR Reclamation Competition Briefing Packet. The Vernal Feast section between the Myth Drannor Embassy and Appendix A has its own standalone at "19 Ches - The Vernal Feast.txt". The Tradesmen Census Appendix C has its own standalone at "Excerpt from the Yellow Abbeye Book of Surveys and Measures - Tradesmen of Daggerdale.txt".]

Dagger Falls Gazetteer—Players' Handout 
This portion of the Chronicle has information for the players specifically, including some references to game materials (such as prices in PHB's and that sort of thing). 
The Old Market 
For over 200 years, this location, just inside the original walls, has served as the primary location for the exchange of day-to-day goods for the Dale. Today, it is a well-established market, with more than a dozen permanent and reputable businesses that surround a busy open-air market.  
The market itself is nestled into the Old Bailey, cozily tucked in beneath the rising battlements of the Barracks and the Tower to the North, as well as the thick outer wall of the bailey to the South. Between these thick walls are closely packed 2-story buildings with shop fronts on the ground level, and homes above. While active (see the Market Calendar below), the market is a busy place, with hundreds of people coming and going throughout the day. During the warmer months, vendors from most of the outlying farms and settlements set up tents in the market, as well as authorized merchants from further abroad.  
The market can be a pleasurable experience for the senses, with many sounds, sights and smells. While not as cosmopolitan as other larger markets, it is still a loud place with a hundred voices, hammers from nearby smithies, musicians plying their trade, and the clatter of wagons on the flagstones. Haverstone's  

Bakery provides the principal olfactory tone, but smells of many food vendors, as well as herbs, spices and perfumes add passing interest to the smell of the place. Being constantly cleaned by capable and friendly boys, it lacks some of the fouler smells you might find in larger centres. Horses and other animals are restricted from entering, and livestock trading is mostly conducted in the Eastern Bailey. Finally, with the only approved fish market found in the Eastgate Customs Court, you won't encounter that smell either. 
Market Calendar 
Winter (Nightal 20—Ches 19)—Closed 
Spring (Ches 19—Kythorn 20)—3 days/tenday 
Summer (20 Kythorn—Eleint 21)—5 days/tenday 
Autumn (21 Eleint—20 Nightal)—3 days/tenday 
Typical Vendors at Market 
All established farms have a license to set up at least 20'x20' of space in the market, and most do. These often come in the form of small tents covering a number of tables whereupon wares are displayed. The most common types of things sold include the following; 
. Produce of all varieties 
. Cheese 
. Breads 
. Preserves 
. Honey and honey products 
. Wax and wax products 
. Wool and wool products 
. Animal hides 
. Curios and cottage art 
. Toys 
There are many local (Dagger Falls) cottage industries run out of people's apartments in town, that use the market as their storefront for 9 months of the year. There are 4-6 of these vendors at any time, usually just with a small table on the periphery of the market. The types of things they sell include; 
. Finished leather goods 
. Small wooden goods 
. Ceramic goods 
. Curios and cottage art 
. Some good art 
. Second-hand goods 
There are also a selection of approved foreign merchants that are licensed to sell here from time to time, and they usually have large tents set up. Two such vendors in the spring of 1483 include; 
. Tamuk's Rugs—a Chessentan who arrived in the middle of winter with a large caravan of rugs. He has a factory in Westgate, and came here having heard about Charity, but never got that far. He has set up in the Market, and seems to be doing brisk business there. 
. Ornarl's Imports—a merchant from Hillsfar who specializes in spices, his tent is busy every day with the house maids of the town who can't get enough of the exotic spices he's brought, including nutmeg, paprika and turmeric. 
There are many food vendors at the market, and indeed, these are often set up the entire week, rather than just on the 3 or 5 market days. In the centre of the market, a family of halflings known as the Butterbees have a stove, many tables, and a small but popular menu of stuffed pastries and sweet drinks. Around the market one can usually find 3-5 vendors selling skewers of meats, jugs of beer, pastries, cheeses, smoked meats, small lunch bags with a complete meal, and other street foods. 
Permanent Establishments in the Old Market 
Bolt & Button & Dutton 
Owner: Dutton Delimbry (Master Tailor) 
Employees: 3 (1 clerk, 2 seamstresses) + owner 
Description: This 2-storey building in the corner of the market has been standing as it is for more than 300 years, and has the characteristically low ceilings of buildings of this vintage. The first floor is divided into a shop that is filled to the rafters with bolts of cloth of many varieties, colours and patterns, and countless boxes full of buttons, pins, lace and every imaginable thing necessary to making clothes and other items. After navigating through the packed shop, one finds a busy pair of seamstresses making and fixing clothing in the back. Their workspace appears chaotic, with the trappings of their trade covering every available space, but they seem very organized and productive. The proprietor, Dutton Delimbyr, is a talented tailor, and makes customized clothing for the more well-to-do men in the town. 
Goods and Prices: All types of clothing except 'High Fashion' (p. 288 CRB), at standard prices. Customized clothing available. Dutton is also skilled enough to create enchantable clothing, and has the following available; 
. +1 Robes (4 sets in various styles and sizes) 
. +1 resiliency cloak (grey, hooded) 
Trivia: Dutton is the older brother of Dr. Delimbyr, whose office is across the market. Despite both being transplants from Waterdeep, and brothers, they don't get along. 
Max & Spenza 
Owners: Maxamillian Maerimmon & Saldvur Spenza 
Employees: 2 clerks + owners 
Description: One of the larger buildings in the market, this is one of only two 3-storey buildings. The first and second floors are full of orderly tables, racks and shelves of goods imported from Sembia. This is a wide range of mostly household goods and some perishables, including their most valuable commodities, wine and cheese. A clerk on each floor will attend patrons with enthusiasm and grace. The proprietors spend most of their time in Dagger Falls, but do make annual trips to Sembia when the roads are clear and safe. 
Goods and Prices: Semi exotic trade goods, including wines and cheese at 200% price (p.294 CRB). Stock the finest personal items to be found in Daggerdale, including hair brushes, mirrors, perfumes and such, at 200%-300% the usual prices. 
Trivia: This is the third year that Max & Speza have been in business at this location. Their first summer here as traveling merchants, they held a large tent in the open market and did well enough that they decided to settle down here, and establish a reliable trade route between here and Sembia. They live in what is rumoured to be the most lavish apartments in the town, on the third floor. 
Edge of Reason 
Owner: Grandlund Olifsen (dwarf) 
Employees: 1 clerk, 3 apprentices, 2 journeymen, + Owner 
Description: This is a very busy smithy, now run by a group of dwarves. The main business of the smithy is to mass produce weapons for the Sunblades. Olifsen's apprentices and journeymen take care of that part of the business, while he takes exclusively custom orders for clients. 
Goods and Prices: Standard weapons can be purchased here for standard prices in the CRB. Olifsen will create magic blades and hammers for customers, and can also work with Cold Iron, Adamantium and Mithral (if you bring it to him). He charges 80% of the CRM value for these items, but typically has a 1-month backlog. Has the following on the rack ready for purchase; 
. +1 Dagger—20 gp 
. +1 Short Sword—30 gp 
. +1 Striking Dagger—85 gp 
. +1 Warhammer—25 gp 
Trivia: This smithy has been a fixture in Dagger Falls for decades, but the previous owner is childless, and decided a few years ago to sell Olifsen and his company. 
Maisie's 
Owner: Maisie Dale (Sorcerer)  
Employees: None 
Description: While technically adjacent to the market, the main entrance to this interesting occult shop is in the alley behind, though there is a small and little-known doorway that connects it to Meagre's, next door. This is one of the smaller shops in the market, but one of the most famous around the dale. The shop is overflowing with occult paraphernalia, most of which Maisie makes herself. She is a master crafter of Talismans, and her wares can usually be found on the most famous and accomplished adventurers throughout the dale and further abroad. 
Goods and Prices: Talismans (pp 565+ CRB). She usually charges 100% of book value, but will sometimes sell these for as little as 50%, if the customer can bring her something she needs from deep in the dale.  
. Has one or two of all Level 1-4 talismans from the CRB on the shelf, 100% book value 
Trivia: Although feared as a witch by many (she has a creepy shop in a creepy alley after all), Maisie is happily married to Luken Meagre (of Meagre's). She kept her 'surname' as part of her business persona. She has 3 small children that all attend the grammar school at the Yellow Abbey. Sunblades and Magistrates regularly visit her shop, and while some think they are investigating her, she is outfitting them with the tools they need to do their job, and usually serves them warm sweet teas while they wait. 
Meagre's 
Owner: Luken Meagre ('Meagre') (wizard) 
Employees: 1 clerk, 2 apprentices + Meagre 
Description: The small stone stair leading to this shop is lit up at night by a minor illusion of small butterflies that flit about the door, casting a warm yellow glow. A smaller shop in the market, this place is disorganized and messy. It is full of books, scrolls, trinkets, garish and somewhat fiendish decorations, and other trappings of a messy wizard. A polite and mousey girl named Abernell will help patrons navigate the cluttered aisles with apologies. 
Goods and Prices: Arcane Scrolls of first level (80% chance, 75% cost), second level (60% chance, 100% cost) and third level (50% chance, 120% cost). Meagre is a master crafter of staves and wands, and can make just about any of either, for 120% list price, in about 2-4 weeks. Any potion of item level 6 or less (100% cost). A random assortment of magical items, currently including the following; 
. Bag of Holding Type II—400 gp 
. Everburning torches (10)—20 gp ea. 
. Skeleton Key—200 gp 
. Wand of Magic Missile (1st)—60 gp 
. Wand of Heal (1st)—60 gp 
. Staff of Fire—60 gp 
. Staff of Abjuration—60 gp 
. Staff of Conjuration—60 gp 
. Staff of Divination—60 gp 
Trivia: Married to Maisie Dale, Meagre settled down after falling in love with her. He retired from a career as a mercenary wizard, and was a member of the FDL for nearly a decade, where he amassed his wealth and honed his skills in the Plains of Netheril. He longs to be back in the Plains again, but now has greater responsibilities enrolled in school. 
Tethyamar House 
Owner: Thordhold Hardradda (dwarf) 
Employees: 2 clerks, 1 jeweler, 1 blacksmith (Thordhold) 
Description: This large 2-story building underwent a face-lift last year, when it was purchased by Thordhold for use as a trading centre and factory for this enterprising dwarf and his company. Well connected and truly neutral in the Gellinson feud, Thordhold has taken every chance to draw riches out of the struggle in the Deep, in order to help fund the retaking of the Tethyamar, as well as his own pockets. The building now has a sturdy dwarven stone façade, complete with large burning braziers flanking the new stairs. Inside, the first floor has been converted to one cavernous space with great pillars, and a small mezzanine, upon which many small doors lead to the private rooms of the dwarves here. The main floor is tidy and organized, with several tables of every imaginable dwarven ware, including ales, weapons, ingots of precious metals, jewelry and many precious and semi-precious stones.  
Goods and Prices: Dwarven weapons at list price. Semi-precious stones (amethysts, citrines, opals, quartz, tourmalines) can be purchased here at 80% value. Currently has; 
. "Geldammer" + 1 Striking, Disrupting Warhammer—195 gp 
Trivia: Thordhold is one of the only dwarves that gets along well with both Gellinson brothers, and has been asked several times to join the Council of Silver and serve as Ambassador to the Dale. He has refused, insisting that the best thing he can do for the cause is turn it into a business. 
Charity House 
Owner: The Common Assembly of Charity. Operated by Master Myles Mercer (Merchant's Guild) 
Employees: 4 clerks, 2 labourers 
Description: Another relatively large building in the market square, this is a 3-storey affair that has been adorned in the style of the people of Charity; diamond-paned leaded glass windows fill every opening, fine wrough-iron lamps burn 'candle coal' all around the building and inside, and the place is filled with warm details that are a delight to the senses. The first floor is divided into the front and back. In front, there are many goods from Charity to be purchased, while the back is a stock room filled to the rafters. The second floor is full of meeting rooms, offices and drawing rooms for company. The third is for apartments for the staff living here. 
Goods and Prices: Glassworks, woolen goods, lamp oil, metal housewares (copper, wrought iron, brass) all at 100% list value, steel and brass ingots (80% list), dark beers (including Charnel Stout—80% list), goat and sheep cheeses, including Nettle Yarg (100% list). Firearms and ammunition (200% list). 
Trivia: As well as hosting the Master Mercer and his staff, this is also the home of Ambassador Whitmore. The drawing rooms of the 2nd floor are host to many diplomatic discussions and trade negotiations. 
Haverstone's Bakery 
Owner: Hazel Haverstone and family 
Employees: 4 apprentice bakers, 1 expert baker, 1 master baker (Hazel) 
Description: This building has been a fixture in Dagger Falls for more than 50 years, with 4 generations of Haverstones operating it. It is a large 2-storey building with public entrances on the west and south faces. From 06h00-12h00 every day, this is the busiest place in the Falls. More than 100 people come through here every morning to buy their day's bread, pastries, or a cup of hot tea. In recent years during the warmer months there are tables set outside for patrons to enjoy their breakfast, mimicking the cosmopolitan cafes of much larger cities. 
Goods and Prices: Breakfast special—Cooked mutton and gravy in a pasty, cup of tea and sugar—2cp, other bakery items at 100% list price (80% for day-olds), very wide selection  
Trivia: Master Baker Hazel Haverstone was captain of the Sunblades 1st Company over 30 years ago. She was the first soldier in that organization to achieve a rank of captain without any battlefield experience, being mostly in charge of logistics at the Castle. Many of her children and grand children have held this position over the decades, and their spears, shields and cloaks adorn the wall behind the main counter of the bakery, a symbol of their pride in their service. 
The Morning Forge 
Owner: Owan Oakhill (Sorcerer, Master Blacksmith) 
Employees: 4 apprentice blacksmiths, 2 expert blacksmiths, 1 master blacksmith (Owan) 
Description: This fixture of Dagger Falls is a busy smithy, with many hammers ringing out all day long, and provides one of the primary sounds for the market. A large smithy of 2-storeys, the north half of the ground floor is open, it being too hot even in the dead of winter for walls. Several anvils and scores of tools fill this area. The smithy area is blocked off by a low chain, designed to keep people out of harm's way, but still providing the flow of air needed for the space, as well as providing a view of the men working, which attracts many young boys who love to watch the sparks fly, as well as young women from time-to-time. The south half of the building's main floor is a shop where many racks and shelves are piled with iron housewares, and the shop specialty, armour. The second floor is for the Oakhill family, being Owan, his wife, and 3 sons, 2 of whom are apprentice smiths. 
Goods and Prices: Iron household goods (100% list price), Any metal armours (100% list price), can make custom armours in about 2 weeks for 120% list. Often has a stock of fine magical armour, which today includes; 
. +1 Chain Shirt—140 gp 
. +1 Resilient Chain Shirt—450 gp 
. +1 Steel Shield—100 gp 
. +1 Chain Mail—150 gp 
. +1 Adamantine Breastplate - 1500 gp 
. "Wherewithal" - +1 Steel Spellguard Shield—300 gp 
Trivia: Owan Oakhill is a private man who came to Dagger Falls with his father as a small boy. His father was the master smith of Crossed Blades farm. There was an incident with Owan's growing magical abilities that forced the family to leave. In Dagger Falls, the family became ardent followers of Amaunator and supporters of the Cathedral. They have a good contract to provide shields and chain shirts for the Sunblades, and many Knights of the Lambent Shield are protected by wares from this smithy. All of their products have etchings of the Morning Lord prominently displayed. 
The Phylactery 
Owner: Blossom Bellwether (Halfling, Alchemist 11) 
Employees: 1 clerk, 2 apprentice alchemists, 1 expert alchemist 
Description: One of the more ostentatious buildings in the Falls, this establishment has 3 great glass globes outside with colourful luminescent bubbling liquids that give away the nature of this shop immediately. Dancing Lights illuminate the stairs of this walk-up single-storey. There is a basement for storage. The owner lives across the street. The main floor is divided into a workshop in the back, and retail shop in the front. The clerk is a young halfling girl named Silvie Rosewater, who is quite gregarious and convincing. Many unwary shoppers leave with much more product and much less coin than intended. 
Goods and Prices: Alchemical crafting materials can be purchased here at 125% list price. All non-poison and non-drug alchemical items from the CRB p.543 of level 1-3 can be found here at 100% list price. Higher level items can be ordered at 125% list price, and take 2-5 days to craft. 
Trivia: Blossom has contracts with over a dozen foresters to bring her the rare goods she needs. She's always looking for more. 
Sam's Sundries 
Owner: Samwise Pettigrew (Halfling) 
Employees: 2 clerks + Sam 
Description: A very large, well-stocked and well-ordered general goods store. 
Goods and Prices: Just about all Gear listed on p. 288 of the CRB, 100% list price. This establishment will purchase general goods in good condition for 25-50% list value. Has the following valuable items behind a glass cabinet; 
. Bracelet of Dashing—60 gp 
. Coyote Cloak—70 gp 
. Crafter's Eyepiece—100 gp 
Trivia: The Pettigrew family is originally from Calimshan and were likely escaped slaves. Samwise is a shrewd negotiator, but reliably buys just about anything that he thinks he can sell again. His wife, Petunia, teaches young children their letters at the Yellow Abbey. 
Hammersmith's Hammer Smith 
Owner: Harry Hammersmith (Master Blacksmith) 
Employees: 2 apprentices, 1 expert, 1 clerk. 
Description: A large 2-storey building in the heart of the market, it provides a constant ringing of hammers and tongs throughout. The west half of the main floor is open to the outside, and is the heart of the operation. The eastern half is a shop where a single clerk runs a busy operation that provides much of the household and trade goods needed in the Falls. 
Goods and Prices: Household goods & tools at 80% list, trade goods at 100% list. The following exceptional items are available; 
. Average Manacles (L3, 5 sets)—15 gp 
. Average Lock (L3, 10 total)—10 gp 
Trivia: This business is in a bitter rivalry with Charity House, which imports similar goods of better quality. 
The Manticore Cafe 
Owner: Mzoul Felshimbryl 
Employees: 1 apprentice cook, 1 expert cook (Mzoul), 2 servers 
Description: This fragrant shop in the market is an unassuming 2-story affair tucked partially behind the much larger Quick Axes. The ground floor is a single open room full of tables and chairs where many patrons come to sip at the exotic drinks (coffees) that are served here. They also serve many dainties which they purchase in bulk at Haverstone's. 
Goods and Prices: Small saucer of coffee—2 cp. Pastries 1cp/3. 
Trivia: Mzoul is from Yulash, and had a difficult time getting a license to open this establishment (which he did in 1478). He has a very reliable trade agreement which delivers the exotic beans that are the staple of his business, all the way from Turmish. 
The Hooded Lantern 
Owner: Cordelia Westember ("Mme Westember") 
Employees: 1 hostess (Cordelia), 3 servers, 3 kitchen staff, 1 expert cook  
Description: This is a single-storey walk-up nestled against the larger Quick Axes. A stone stair leads up to the fine entrance of this tavern, wherein the stately hostess greets all visitors in her charming Cormyrean accent. The tavern caters to middle class patrons who want a quiet place to have a good meal. The decour is warm and formal, with quarter-sawn oak panelling and furniture, warm lamps on each table, and many servers bringing food and drink to their patrons with great courtesy.  
Goods and Prices: Good quality meals (5sp) and wines (1-5 sp each). The House Wines are all from Cormyr, and include Utterdark (red, 3 sp/bottle), Tethyrian Tenagluth (a spiced red, 5 sp/bottle), and Arrhenesh (a sweet white, 4 sp/bottle). The lunch and dinner menus each have many options. Private rooms are available for 1 gp/hour. 
Trivia: Mme Westember is a dedicated follower of Sune Firehair, and makes not attempt to conceal this. She is always dressed in stunning dresses which accentuate her tall and curvy features, and her staff are dressed similarly. She often hosts events for the clergy and body of the local Sunite church here, and it is well known that Troia Truestar prefers to meet people in a private room here. 
Dr. Delimbyr 
Owner: Dr. Drago Delimbyr (Master Physician) 
Employees: 1 clerk, 2 Priory Sisters, 1 apprentice physician 
Description: Nearly hidden between two much larger establishments (Quick Axes and Liberty Hill House), this small doctor's office is a two-story building original to the settlement, complete with low ceilings and small dark windows. The first floor is made up of exam and treatment rooms for patients, and is spartan and clean. Dr. Delimbry and his staff treat all manner of injuries and sickness here, and the two Priory Sisters are the real draw. These two, Lisbeth and Corinna, are both from the Charnel Priory in Charity, and although being novitiates of their order, the reputation of their order brings many patients to the doors. The second floor is an infirmary, where patients can stay longer term. 
Goods and Prices: Treat Wounds 2d8 (1 sp), Treat Wounds 2d8+10 (3 sp), Treat Wounds 2d8+20 (5 sp), Treat Disease +3 save (5 sp), Treat Disease +5 save (10 sp), Treat Poison +3 save (2 sp), Treat Poison +5 save (5 sp). Also sell medical supplies at 100% list. Patients requiring long-term care are charged 1 gp/day for their admission here, on top of their treatments. There is room for 10 such patients here. 
Trivia: Dr. Delimbyr is the brother of the proprietor the tailor shop across the market square, Dutton Delimbry. Both are from Waterdeep, and don't get along. Dr. Delimbry is a bit of a strange bachelor who while extremely eligible, tends to avoid the public outside of his duties in his office. 
Liberty Hill House & Liberty Hill Traders 
Owner: Commonly owned by the Council at Liberty Hill, operated by Deneleus Dale (expert merchant) and Stephany Greenwood (priestess of Amaunator 5) 
Employees: 1 hostess (Stephany), 2 attendants, 2 labourers (Liberty Hill House) 6 clerks + Deneleus (Liberty Hill Traders) 
Description: A very large and respectable manse in the corner of the market, this is a 2-storey walk-up with a good view over the market square. During market season, there are three large tents in front of the House where goods from Liberty Hill and Crossed Blades Farms are traded (Liberty Hill has made a trade agreement with Crossed Blades). The tents are full of produce, especially the fruits from Liberty Hill (pears, apples, berries) and the grains from Crossed Blades (barley, hops). They also trade wool and woolen goods, small wooden housewares, wooden toys, cottage-made clothing articles, and leather products. The House is an informal embassy of Liberty Hill, which doubles as a hostel for Amaunatori pilgrims. The large building houses all the staff from the farm, visitors and the pilgrims, with room for 50 or more people in total. The inside of the building is clean, functional and plain.  
Goods and Prices: Produce at 75% list, simple clothing, toys, leather goods at 75% list. Healing services for the Faithful free. One of the finest bowyers in the dale is Tuugan Swift, who lives in Crossed blades. Some of his bows can be purchased here, including; 
. "Dahlia" +1 Striking Composite Longbow—130 gp 
. "Original Sin" +1 Wounding Composite Longbow—500 gp 
. "Overwatch" +1 Striking Frost Shortbow—750 gp 
Trivia: The fastest growing settlement in Daggerdale is Liberty Hill, with a constant supply of Amaunatori pilgrims from all over the eastern heartlands and further abroad. The success of the farm is exemplified by the permanent establishment of a trading and diplomatic House which is the envy of some other farms. Deneleus has done an excellent job of securing the licenses and property needed for this establishment, and as a young single man, is one of the most eligible bachelors in town. 

Quick Axes 
Owner: Dalak Quick Axe 
Employees: 1 bar tender (Daygle Stonebridge, Dwarf), 1 innkeeper (Jewel Stonebridge, female Dwarf, wife to Daygle), 4 waitresses, 1 cook, 2 kitchen staff, 2 chambre maids, 1 master brewer (Dalak), 1 apprentice brewer. 
Description: This is one of the larger buildings in the Falls. After the defeat of the cult of Bane in the town in 1372, the buildings that housed the cult were given to the Eastern Storm in gratitude for their efforts in freeing the town and the nearby mines. The Eastern Storm left town shortly after, and deeded those properties to their now-retired companion, Dalak Quickaxe, and his brother, Balak. Both were expert brewers, and built a successful business quickly. In the early 1400's, the dwarves demolished the small buildings and replaced them with the large 2-storey stone building that dominates the Old Square today. This is dwarven construction which is more functional than beautiful, but the place is warm and inviting. On Market Days, the place is packed with merchants and buyers who have come to take advantage of the market, and there is usually live music these nights. The main taproom is flanked by two roaring fires, which usually have many locals seated around them drinking the fine beers that the establishment produces. Upstairs are several good-quality rooms that can be rented by visitors to town, as well as one suite where the operators, Daygle and Jewel Stonebridge live. In the winter months, the taproom attracts locals who are looking for a warm place with great beer and music, in contrast to the other less-entertaining local establishments. 
Goods and Prices: The drink, food and rooms here are all of good quality, though not fancy. 
. Mug of beer (Sungold Ale, BitterRock Porter, Black Iron Lager) – 1 cp 
. Glass of wine: Many varieties, house wine is Ashaba Dusk (red) from Saerloon – 1-3 cp 
. Bottle of wine (many varieties), 2-5 sp 
. "Dinner" – only serves one meal each day, which is always a square and hardy dinner (served from 1 PM – 10 PM), usually involving a mutton stew, breads with butter and jams, seasonal or preserved greens, served with a mug of beer or glass of wine – 4 cp 
. "Light Dinner" – a plate of bread, butter and cold meats – 2 cp 
. Private room for 2 (rooms C, E, H, I and J on map) – 5 sp/night 
. Bed in common room (rooms A, D and G) – 2 sp/night 
. Fine bedroom for 2 (room F) – 1 gp/night 
Trivia: Dalak was nearly killed twice during the 1372 campaign to liberate Dagger Falls, starting with a run-in with a terrible lion in Anauroch (who's pelt now resides at Charnel Priory). His brother, Balak, was a slave who had been rescued, but had also been nearly killed from deprivation and later violence. The two opened the establishment together, but Balak died in 1438 of natural causes. Balak then gave over control of the tavern and inn to his employees and friends, the Stonebridge's, who have run it ever since. Balak is a recluse who spends most of his time in the basement brewery doing what he loves most; making beer. He is one of the oldest inhabitants of the town, and one of only a few that remembers first hand events from the 13th century onward. 
The Myth Drannor Embassy 
"The loneliest place in Dagger Falls." That is what the friendliest of the locals call the Embassy. Others call it a waste of space, or a blatant offence to the people of the Dale. This is because there are very few elves left in this part of the Dalelands, as they seem preoccupied with some trouble in their own land, not terribly far away. Still others call the Embassy "The Tomb", as it was the site of the grisliest battle in the history of Dagger Falls. In Eleint, 1372 DR, The Eastern Storm, accompanied by William Cormaeril and his hearth guard assaulted what was then "Dark Sun Temple", a large fortified temple dedicated to Cyric. Inside was a small army of undead, and a protracted battle lasted for many hours, as reinforcements were called in to help clear the temple out. 
For many years afterward, the building lay empty. Even though it had been thoroughly cleaned out and deconsecrated by many powerful priests. It wasn't until the late 1390's, when Faerun was just over the most tumultuous years of the Spell Plague, that the elves returned. The House Miratar, who often supported the Whitegates in the mountains and the growing plains of Netheril, purchased the building, and hired many local craftsmen to put it back into a serviceable condition. For nearly a decade, there were usually a group of elves at the Embassy, and they worked closely with the local government, helping with local development and defensive measures. However, by 1415, the elves all left, and for the most part haven't returned. What is happening in Myth Drannor has them all occupied most of the time. The windows of this now-fine building are usually dark, and almost no one resides there. The Redjacks are under contract to provide two guards there at all times, and they have a local custodian, Berriadock Burgundy (a middle-aged halfling male) who keeps the place tidy. 
The building itself is a fortified 3-story affair, integrated into the thick walls of the southern ramparts. Indeed, the second floor has a rampart encircling its perimeter around which guards can walk. There are many locked doors into the Embassy on this level, but few dare try the handles. 
Trivia (Known by Solicitor Jeska): The elves of Myth Drannor are fighting a two-sided battle for their home. They are battling devils that are deep beneath the surface of their ancient settlement, as well as Prince Brennus Tanthul, one of the rulers of Netheril. Prince Brennus is obsessed with gaining entry to Myth Drannor, likely to access the archives there and study the now dead mythals. His agents provide a constant mid-intensity conflict in the area around the elven city. 
They have sent an 'Observer', Jeska, to reside in the Dale and to assist in the reclamation of Thistle Ridge, which they have some interest in. Jeska answers to Elowen Miratar, one of the leaders of that noble House of Myth Drannor. 
There is a store of emergency supplies in the old catacombs of the Embassy. 


Appendix A: NPCs  
Ambassador Whitmore 
Adjudicating committee member 

The ambassador to Charity and the original sponsor of the reconnaissance report on Thistle Ridge. 
Bishop Whitegate 
Adjudicating committee member 
Fiona Scarlette 
Aide-de-camp & cleric of Sune 
She is short and curvy, at 5'1", and not particularly athletic.  She has naturally blonde hair, but it is dyed black today, and she favours wearing lots of makeup to match the colour of her hair.  She goes on and on about the dressing table she had at The Old Fort in Charity, and how she could apply any colour to her face or hair, and you can see that she misses it.  
She is an orphan, and never knew her parents.  The surname 'Scarlett' in Charity denotes her status as an orphan, just like the surname 'Dale' in the rest of the Dalelands.  In Charity, it is a sign that you are likely not free, and is a stigma, whereas many boast of their surname of Dale, as being emblematic of their self-reliance. 
Fiona was found on the steps of Charnel Priory 16 years ago, and was raised by the Sisters until the age of 8.  She showed no promise as a Sister, and was assigned to live with the Keystone family.  Her adopted father, Walter Keystone, was the Merchants' Guildmaster, as well as Speaker of the Common Assembly.  He was one of the most influential people of his caste ('Middlemen'), but was revealed recently to be part of a cult known as The Gideon Cult, and is at-large as a wanted man.  The family descended quickly into penury; Fiona was turned out, her 'papers' (you think this is something of an ownership contract or somesuch) signed over to Medea Rowan at The Old Fort. 
She had been a novitiate in the church of Sharess since the age of 12, and was already well known to Medea, and was a promising girl with enthusiasm and a natural affinity for people and her goddess that made her stand apart from other girls her age.  However, she never got accustomed to the rougher men of the Old Fort, and she knew that her time would soon be coming to minister to her patrons in a more intimate manner. Some of the older girls told her that there were many men asking when she would be available, and that she should be careful.  It was well known that the dilettante Godwin Ferguson asked after her all the time, and that Mme. Medea had refused great inducements to turn her out early from Godwin. 
General Thunderstorm 
Adjudicating committee member 
Godwin Ferguson 
A dilettante from Charity and the nephew to the richest man in Daggerdale, Lord Chancellor Ferguson. 
High Cultivar Oakdale 
Adjudicating committee member 
Mayor Cassimar 
Adjudicating committee member 

The caretaker of the Myth Drannor embassy. 
"Merry", as he prefers to be called, is a middle-aged halfling with shaggy grey hair and a kind face under some reading glasses perched on his nose.  He wears sensible clothes, and has his sleeves rolled up and some gardening tools hanging out of his pockets as he smiles and greets you. 
"Welcome to The Tomb, friends!  I'm so happy to have real company!  Merry at your service, sirs and madams.  Let's get you inside straight away!  I will see you to your rooms, and we'll share some tea at the Symbaern Hearth (Location 3 on the map) once you're settled in!  

Appendix B: Daggerdale Flora and Fauna 
Dogs 
There are many different breeds of working and family dogs in the dale. Protection dogs are quite common, as are livestock and hunting breeds. Below are some of the breeds that are popular or unique in Daggerdale. A summary of their traits is found at the end of this section. 
Lowsted Wolfhound 
These large-bodied shaggy dogs are the jack-of-all-trades in Daggerdale. Having been bred for over 150 years by the Lowsted family for which Lostead Farm takes its name, these dogs can be found at every farm and settlement in the dale. They are typically 3' at the shoulder, lean with a powerful and springy build, and with a messy shaggy coat ranging from grey, through dark browns to black. 
The Lowsted is good at hunting, guarding property and livestock (though infamously difficult to train to be good with chickens and other fowl) and has the best endurance of any dog in the area, making it favoured by the Foresters and mounted Sunblades). 
The Lowsted has a specialized topline breed called the Lantern. These are always a light dirty grey in colour and have blue eyes (most other Lowsteds have brown eyes). Lanterns are famous for their ability to detect Shadowvar/Shadar-Kai and are highly sought after throughout the dale for this ability. 
Untheric Shepherd 
Originally from the south of Faerun, bred to thrive in blistering hot deserts and freezing cold nights, and with one job; the protection of animals, there is no more fierce livestock dog than the Untheric Shepherd. Bred for decades at Foothills farm, where they keep hundreds of sheep in many far-ranging flocks, this breed can be found on most farms that keep grazing animals without the gates. 
The dog is a very large bodied, light-coloured giant. While it is the best friend of the shepherd and his flock, this dog is notoriously suspicious of all other visitors, and does not thrive in populated environments. 
The kennel master at Foothills has bred these dogs to be merciless hunters of wolves. Their topline specimens are nearly the colour of the sheep they guard, and purposefully hide in the flock to fool wolves into approaching. They will attack wolves as they get close, often singling out the largest and slowest, which they reliably tear apart. 
Cormyrean Shepherd 
These medium-sized herding dogs originate in the cattle fields of Cormyr and have been a fixture in Daggerdale and the rest of Faerun for centuries. They are exceptionally capable at moving herds of animals, and at detecting threats. Being the friendliest of the working dogs in the region, they are also favoured as family pets. 
There are no specialized breeders of this dog, and there are countless variants throughout the dales. However, about 1 in 5 is blessed with exceptional intelligence, and the ability to fully understand language. They will understand the basic concept of any spoken language they hear, and have a complete understanding of the languages they are trained in. Capable of grasping any concept as well as an adolescent human, they are the easiest to train and are coveted as companions and even as extra hands around the farm, shop or home. The topline Cormyrean Shepherds with this language blessing are called Singers, as they are not only gifted at understanding language, but also communicating complicated messages to other dogs of nearly any species, which they do through their refined howling. 
Deepingdale Mastiff 
This is the largest of the specialized working dogs in the dales, this breed originating in the militia of Deepingdale in the 13th century. At over 200 lbs, they are the largest domesticated dogs in the region, and are the best fighters. 
Generally good as a guard dog and a family pet, their only real skill is attacking threats to their family or master. 
The kennel master at Crossed Blades Farm that breeds the Daggerdale variety trains the strongest, fiercest, and smartest of his pups to be Wardogs. These are intelligent and merciless beasts that learn to fight in packs and as part of military units, and it is not uncommon to see one or two of these with most Sunblade platoons or local militia units.  
Some can be bred to serve as mounts for halflings. 

Tesh Valley Wolf (Hybrid) 
People all over Faerun have bred wolves with domesticated dogs for millennia. In Tesh Valley Farm in Daggerdale, the Blackmanes have done this successfully for more than 30 years, creating a hybrid known as the Tesh Valley Wolf. They have a specialized topline known as the Feybane. These dogs look almost entirely like wolves but have a noticeable glow behind their eyes. They are known to hunt down fey creatures with great enthusiasm, indeed often disappearing for days while they track and kill them. They have an innate resistance to some of the magics that the more common fey deploy to defend themselves. 
The horticulturalists at the Yellow Abbey have made inquiries about these 'dogs', and annually request to purchase some for study, but the old kennel master has refused for years to subject them to whatever experiments the Yellow Abbey has planned. This has always caused more tension between the Blackmanes and Whitegates, if any more was needed.  

Dogs of Daggerdale - Traits 
  Lowsted Wolfhound Untheric Shepherd Cormyrean Shepherd Deepingdale Mastiff Tesh Valley Wolf 
Size (Shoulder) 3' 3' 2' 6" 3' 6" 3' 
Size (Wt) 100 lbs 85 lbs 65 lbs 225 lbs 125 lbs 
Combat Good Good Fair Excellent Good 
Hunting - Large Game Good Fair Poor Poor Excellent 
Hunting - Small Game/Fowl Good Fair Fair Poor Excellent 
Guarding Property Good Excellent Fair Good Poor 
Large Livestock Good Excellent Excellent Poor Poor 
Small Livestock Poor Excellent Good Poor Poor 
Intelligence Good Good Excellent Fair Fair 
Endurance Excellent Good Good Good Good 
Family Good Fair Excellent Good Poor 
Topline Trait Detection of Shadowvar Favoured Enemy - Animals Language Fighter or Ranger Feats Favoured Enemy – Fey + Magic Resistance 
Cost - Puppy/Untrained 1 gp 5 sp 4 sp 5 sp 1 gp 
Cost - Trained Adult 5 gp 4 gp 3 gp 5 gp 5 gp 
Cost - Puppy Topline 30 gp 2 gp 2 gp 3 gp 30 gp 
Cost - Trained Topline 50 gp 10 gp 10 gp 15 gp 50 gp 
