[Source: Daggerdale Flora and Fauna.txt, lines 334+]

19 Ches - The Vernal Feast – A Shared Holiday of the Two Faiths of Daggerdale 
By Brother Vessuvian, Candlekeep Emissary attaché to The Yellow Abbeye of Daggerfalls, 20 Ches, 1483 DR. 
It is important to observe the religious bicameral nature of Daggerdale, especially as it plays out on the 19th of Ches every year in the town of Dagger Falls.  This year, I was fortunate enough to be at liberty for the entirety of the festival which, it should be noted, starts in earnest on the evening of the 18th of Ches for the Chaunteans.  This is a conspicuous date, as it is the second-most important Holy Day for both the Amaunatori and the Chaunteans (and, it should be acknowledged, a dozen other faiths of varying sizes and popularity). 
For the Amaunatori, the 19th of Ches is known as the Vernal Epiphany, for the Visions that many soon-to-be worshipers of Amaunator all shared on that date in 1373 DR, in advance of the Spellplague, and the rebirth of Amaunator a year and six tenday later.  Ardelusk Whitegate himself was one such Vision Holder, though he kept that to himself until many years later, after having met people from all over the Realms that had the same or similar visions.  For the Amaunatori, this is a day of solemn observance of the promise Amaunator made to return and rescue the People of Faerun from the ravages of the Spellplague. 
For the Chaunteans, this Equinox is known as The Budding, though there are many other lewd euphemisms to describe the nature of the day.  Not only their second-most important Holy Day, it is also their second-most licentious festival as well, and among young mothers and girls it is affectionately known as 'The Courting'.  In advance of their most important Holy Day, Greengrass, wherein young couples exchange vows and pleasures of the flesh, The Courting is a day (it's actually two nights and a day in Daggerdale, though I've heard it is shorter in other places) where young men announce their 'interest' in a young woman, the young woman then having the right to accept or refute the young man during Greengrass six tenday later.  Of course, young people being young people, many don't wait that long, and many don't limit themselves to one potential lover.  And so, it is a debaucherous affair that has Amaunatori mothers keeping their sons indoors if possible, and attempting to shut out the temptation of the games and songs and other inducements that ring out during this time. 
In Dagger Falls, it is a feast for all senses.  The streets are adorned with the horticultural and flowery decorations of the Chaunteans, and the beautiful candles, lanterns and other lights of the Amaunatori.  Every oven is engaged with the making of breads and delicacies, providing a constant variety of mouth-watering smells as one travels the clean cobbles of town.  This year was no different, and as I sit here and write this, I still have half a bag of sour-dough pasties at my side and am doing my best to not mix ink with crumbs. 
There is music all over the town.  Chauntean revelers well into their cups sing all manner of bawdy tunes, while at the next corner, yellow-garbed Amaunatori sing pleasing, if sombre, songs from their hymn books.  This morning, the Choir of the Cathedral began to sound at seven bells, and their voices and bells and harps were a pleasure any visitor to the Cathedral Bailey all day long. 
The Chaunteans, to their credit, are the sincerely more inclusive party to this two-sided feast.  They give heart-felt "Amaunator Keep Thee's" to their countrymen at every meeting, and enthusiastically offer to share the trappings of their feast, this being wine, ale, sweets, dancing and song.  Most Amaunatori turn their noses up, occasionally offering an off hand "Chauntea is All", while trying their best not to be noticed noticing the dresses of the Chauntean girls and the bouncing cargo therein.  Still, it is a peaceful affair, and one that is most entertaining to those of neither Flock.  Again, to their credit, the Chaunteans are quick to invite anyone they find on the street into their revelry, while the only such inclusive offer made by the Amaunatori comes during their Solstice Feast in Nightal, where people of all Faiths merrily partake in the custom of gift-giving and sharing warm drinks by a warmer fire. 
This year, the weather is conducive to a good Feast.  There is almost no snow in the town, as we've had some early rains, and the day is bright.  An occasional cloud passes over, providing a brief suspension of large floating flakes of snow, which offer a satisfying juxtaposition of bare shoulders and the gentle, ethereal petals of frost, drifting gracefully through the crisp spring air, creating a serene and dream-like atmosphere.   
Reports of distant roads with this early warm weather have also arrived, as evidenced by the activity in the Eastern Bailey.  Or at least, the activity there before the Feast.  For the last tenday, wheelwrights, coopers, joiners and all other such tradesmen have been busy packing up the many caravans that are assembling in the Bailey, getting ready to depart for Tilverton Pass, Ashabenford and Hillsfar, and points beyond.  Merchants and other businesses are getting ready to receive the season's first caravans from these places, which could arrive just about any day.  But today, there is very little hammering and packing happening there, despite the best attempts by caravan masters to keep their men focused on assembling their train.  Indeed, it appears as though one of the favoured pastimes of the young Chauntean women is to prance by young men who should be working and lure them away as a matter of deliberate mischief.  I should note that I experimented with this very thing, sitting conspicuously alone on a bench in the middle of the Old Market Square, with my nose in a book, and was not two minutes into the experiment before being whisked pleasantly away, the details of which I'll reserve as a gentlemen ought to. 
Of note on this day in 1483 is the commencement of a great undertaking by the Governors' Assembly, so important that it drew away at seven bells various dignitaries and other mentionable people to an important meeting in Governors' Hall, which has been the talk of the town all day.  Five companies have been selected to compete for the honour of receiving a charter to an abandoned farm along the Moonsea road, among them the famous White Cloaks, who are favoured to win.  At this meeting were the heads of the two Faiths, who surely had other ecumenical duties to oversea, as well as the mayor, the Ambassador from Charity, and General Thunderstorm.  The final figure, it is guessed, chose the date for this opening ceremony, as his duties normally see him at the Castle, but he is always in attendance for the Vernal Feast, which happens to be the last day of the year in the Sunblade contractual calendar. 
The Muster, as it is known in both military and civilian circles, is the tenday following the Vernal Feast, wherein the many companies of Sunblades are reconstituted for the season; soldiers are traded from company to company, and the Recruits (those of the 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th companies training here in town) are rotated into fully commissioned companies.  With 288 young soldiers going out, and 288 coming in, there are over five hundred additional young people with their appetites to satisfy enjoying the Feast.  It is the unenviable task of Captain Jovian Ash (Captain of the Recruits) and his four lieutenants to ensure every soldier finds his or her way back to barracks every night after the liberty they enjoy during the Feast. 
The business with the abandoned farm on the east road has prompted an ad hoc arena or theatre to be assembled apurpose for the competition, and as I sit here and write this in the Yellow Abbeye in the late morning of the 20th, with my head throbbing just a bit more than I should confess, I have just heard the roar of a crowd watching the opening match of the competition not far from my window, and I wish I could see what is driving the crowd to such cheering so early in the morning after so late a night. 
The Feast this year has drawn in a large host of men and women from Charity, the largest anyone can remember since the Zguumish Siege of '04.  The Old Market Square is abuzz with these strangely-dressed and stranger-talking cousins of the Dale.  One can on any day talk to the clerks at Charity House for an amusing dialectical experience.  But today the air of the Old Market and other nearby places is full of their vocal nonsense, and more than a little jeering by their uncouth young men; Chauntea does not figure heavily into the fabric of Charity, and these people misinterpret some of the gestures of the merry makers as invitations to unkind attention.  The Sunblades in the Market, who would rather be drinking from half-hidden flasks under their tabards have to do the real work of keeping inebriated factions of young people from having at each other. 
While blissfully wandering the streets of the Old Bailey (where most of the Chauntean festivities are centralized), I ran into Merri Mumfrey, the Town Fool.  This man is well known to all in Dagger Falls, though few know much about him, where he came from, or even where he resides in the town.  Merri is well known to have liberty to come and go as he pleases, and I have seen him walk unmolested into the Historic Wing itself, mumbling nonsense and pulling at his sleaves maniacally, while the guards did their best to look the other way.  He often claims to have 'meetings' with some of the key figures of the history of the dale, and can often be seen laying on the floor of the Cathedral, with his ear pressed against the Burial Stones of the departed, muttering to himself. 
On this 19th of Ches, 1483, he was singing the following song; 
There are spirits spirits spirits one-two-three; 
Small but great in wrath and sad betrayal, 
Their tragic story is the key to set them all and others free, 
And expose an ancient and false portrayal. 

There are maidens maidens maidens one-two-three; 
Their warm breath in the frosty morn a haze, 
They sing and dance and tempt the boys with all they have and little poise, 
To consummate in less than ten and fifty days. 

There are shadows shadows shadows one-two-three; 
They are strongest in the west and bend to thee 
These shadows cast a form that stirs a mighty storm 
That darkens river, ridge and road and sea. 

There are mothers mothers mothers one-two-three 
Whose husbands toil in the field and the bough. 
They have welcoming rear-ends and sons with lonely friends, 
Who come and go before the husbands turn to plough. 

There are devils devils devils one-two-three; 
Men think that they have got them by the tail, 
We laugh while they are weeping but they dance while we are sleeping, 
And in the cold light of day they may prevail. 

There are nanas nanas nanas one-two-three; 
Whose granddaughters have husbands tall and strong. 
These men blow out the candles, making more fun than broom handles, 
Before returning to their young wives legs so lithe and long. 

There are monsters monsters monsters one-two-three; 
Who dreamt a man who doesn't know exactly how to seam, 
There's an eye that doesn't close while all the others doze, 
And I think we all might be a monster's dream. 

I might be thought to be taking advantage of the opportunity to put a lewd song to paper, and this might be half true, but I should say that Brother Darred says that Merri is right about the weather half the time, and that our departed friend Phinneas Hoetmer took him seriously enough for us to give him consideration.   
So there we have it; the setting of the Vernal Feast of 1483.  Merri's song sums up at least half of it, and the cleverest among us will have caught his references to the bicameral nature of the Feast.  What the rest is about is beyond me, and we don't have Brother Phinneas to explain the sense of it, if indeed there is any.  I doubt there is.
