== Day 1 - Daggerford Farm ==

Tarsakh 20, 1479

It was hard to say goodbye to my mom in Dagger Falls. She's worried that I won't come back, but she also knows that I have to go. I have been thinking about going to the Castle for a year now, and the sermon last week was all I needed to hear to get me on the way. Sunlord Whitegate is right; there is darkness that comes from the west, just as the Sun itself comes from the East, and we must chase that darkness back and destroy it.

The road is a dangerous place, but I had an easy day of travel. Me and Lumina hooked up with some stone masons from Westgate and a small group of Sun Blades, and no one bothered us. We got to Daggerford Farm pretty early, but the Captain of the Blades said that we can't go further tonight. Anyway, the countryside here is so nice; the big oaks at the edge of all the tilled fields are just coming into full green, and they are really something to see sway in the wind.

Daggerford Farm is a nice place. The people here are friendly, and the food at the Inn is really good. The room was clean, but they made Lumina and me get separate ones, because we aren't married, even though I said we aren't a couple. Anyway, I walked around the grounds at night, looking at the walls and all the new buildings in the farm. Everything is new stone, except a couple old log homes that were the original farms I think. Even the big barns are stone part way up, and the new Cathedral here is nearly as fancy as the Morning Star. 

I went up and talked to two young Sun Blades up in one of the new stone towers. They had a pair of lamps that could cast a beam of light a hundred yards, and they scanned the fields around the farm. They are young guys; same age I was, I guess, when I did my 2 years. They seemed to like it well enough, and so did I, but when I see the young guys now, I think 'you don't know what you are in for, son', even though I'm only 21. It's not an easy life, but they seemed to like it well enough, and one guy had a local girl bring him a basket at midnight, and we shared some of the cheese they make here and the fresh bread. I like this farm. It's easy to forget that 1000 orks live within 10 miles of here.

== Day 2 - Rain Hill Mine ==

Tarsakh 21

The inn at Rain Hill Mine isn't as nice as the one at Daggerford. Just like the sweet green fields of the farm grown a happy people and cheerful places, the rough stony hills here and the mean looking pines and scrubby bush make stern places and people. 

Rain Hill Mine should be called Rain Hill Jail. The walls here are not the fancy dressed stone of the farms and the town in the valley. They are huge crude blocks that I don't think our People laid. The towers look new and familiar, but the faces at the steel gates and at all the many check points leading into the grounds were not. They were mean faces that weren't happy to see us, and the men showed little respect for Lumina. That nearly brought me to blows with one jack ass, but the captain of the Sun Blades we are traveling with just took me by the shoulder and pushed me past the offensive oaf. \"These aren't our type of people, Dorian. These are miners and mercenaries, and they aren't our people. We only stay here because this is where one day gets you, and Luminous has an arrangement with the people who run this place. Someday, I'd like to see him come down here and ... let's forget it. Keep your mouth shut in the taproom, and for the Sun's Sake, boy, don't imbibe any of their liquor.\"

He was right to warn me. The taproom here is a rowdy place unlike most inns I've seen. It is rather more like the Hanging Zhent back in Town, but I always stayed out of there. The men here are dirty, use foul language, misuse the local women, who are also dirty, and they drink liquor like a soldier drinks water. There are fights and I think I saw some fornicating at a table in a corner. I told Lumina when I saw it \"let's get out of here; this place isn't right\" and we went upstairs. This time, they didn't give us a hard time about bunking together, and in fact, a couple of the men made the lewdest suggestions to both her and I, and even offered to help me with her! I kept the words of the captain in my head, and I just pushed past them. Those stupid miners don't know that I have my 2 years done, and that I'm a corporal, and killed me 11 orks and 1 hobgoblin. 

It's tough to write, and even tougher to get sleep. It's so loud here. I hate to say it, but I think my mom was right to worry. And she was right about one thing for sure; she always used to say \"the further you get from Dagger Falls, the stranger things get.\"

== Day 3 - Castle Radiance ==

=== Fort Luminous ===

Tarsakh 22

I'm in Loedegan's Hall tonight, writing this in the famous barracks of the famous Castle Radiance!

We had a long hard march through the mountains today. We all left before Sunrise Service, which we took on the road. The captain said it's better to get away from the mine before the guards and the toll men wake up. I have to trust him.

The path from the mine goes up and up, and the pine-covered hills turn into pine-choked valleys crushed between steep jagged mountains. The path sticks to the forested, low portion of the mountains, but up and always up it goes. The trees get darker and meaner the further up you get, and after you pass the first range of mountains, you come out into a huge, long valley, and you can see the next rows in the distance, larger and meaner looking. Some of the bigger ones have snow on them, just like the paintings in the Morning Star Cathedral.

At about high sun, after marching fast and hard, we came to Fort Luminous. This is a new fort at a fork in the road; from here you can go south and west towards the Castle, or north and west towards Whitegate Mine. The Fort here is so. It's so new that there are walls and towers covered in scaffolding and masons, and there are groups of clever looking men with large pictures of how the place is to be built, just sort of looking at things and yelling at the workers once in a while.

On one big, brand new tower, is a great Gun. It looks like it's about as long as 4 horses, and it is totally made of bronze, and has a huge crank-type-mechanism under it for turning around and pointing up and down. There are more clever men and a couple of gnomes with the strangest tools and clothes like I've never even heard of there, and while we waited to get past, the gun made ready to fire. There was a long sharp whistle, and all the guards and workers and everyone stopped what they were doing, and looked at a hill off in the distance. I could see that they had a huge wooden building on stilts, sort of like the cisterns on top of some of the ale houses in Town, about 1/4 mile away, and the gun was slowly being cranked by a dozen strong men, while two clever ones used looking glasses to sight the thing. Another whistle sounded, and everyone covered their ears, so me and Lumina did too.

BOOM! The gun made a noise like I never heard before! It was so loud that we couldn't hear a thing for a while as our ears adjusted, and the whole gun and tower vanished in smoke for a while. I kept watching the tower as the smoke drifted away, thinking the gun must have exploded, but it was there just fine, and the men up there were laughing, but the two with the looking glasses were arguing. The wooden building in the distance was still there, but I could see a huge pine tree slowly start to fall into the bush.

There are lots of guards around the Fort, and they are all decent Sun Blades, and there is a Lieutenant there that checks papers and asks a lot of questions. He asked me and Lumina what our business was, but Lumina just said she was going up to see her grandpa, and they didn't bother us much after that. There were a couple traders with us by this time, and those guys got the irons, so to speak. The Lieutenant asked them pretty much every question you could think of, many twice or more.

While the whole column of travelers was being questioned, a unit of Knights rode up from the northwest, from the direction of the Whitegate Mine. These men look as tough and serious as you imagine you will be when you start your training with the Sun Blades. These guys are it though; all covered in scars and looking as mean as a hungry wolverine. One man had only one eye and one hand, and another had a face so disfigured from some terrible blow that he hardly looked human. They rode up to the Lieutenant who stopped everything he was doing to talk to the men, and he saluted them. They all saluted back in time, and I tried to think back to my chain-of-command lessons from training, and I'm sure that Sun Blade officers rank higher than Knights, but we're a long way from the training grounds in Town, so maybe it's different up here where there is real fighting.

=== Mountain Path and Bridges ===

Anyway, you have to march hard for the rest of the day after the Fort. The road goes up and up, and the captain is always marching up and down the line of travelers keeping us together with his soldiers. I think the merchants and the masons resent it, but they don't want to be left behind, so they keep step. We passed by several bridges in the green valley of the mountains. They span crevices that seem to spring up out of nowhere; the forest will give way, and you can see huge pines growing a hundred or more feet below you, at the bottom of sheer-cliffed canyons with little streams in them. All the bridges are wood, and all of them have teams of masons nearby building new stone ones right beside the old wooden ones. There are always lots of tents and more Sun Blades at these crossings, and everyone here is cheerful. I think the masons are cheery because they use the chance to talk to us to quit their hard work for a while. 

At one camp, I met my first contract soldiers. It was the last camp before the Castle, and we stopped to have a drink because everyone was tired and one of the masons knew the team working on the bridge that spanned the small gorge here. I noticed a young man who I sort of knew, named Warburton. I knew he was older than me, but I think we might have been in the service at the same time in different companies. Warburton went a bit funny after his service was up though, and he 'follows the will of Amaunator directly' I heard him say that day when I asked him why he didn't just reenlist and get his stripes. He also said the company was better, and he nodded towards a girl who was sitting on a pile of dressed stone nearby, humming softly to herself. \"That's Troia\" he said, and smiled a little funny.

I walked over to her and introduce myself. \"Dorian Dale\" I said, bowing deeply before her \"I don't think we've met...\"

\"Troia\" she said, as she gracefully leaped down from the stones. \"Troia Trustar. Nice to meet you, Mr. Dale. Dorian is a strong name. I think there is fate woven around you. I am sure I will sing of your heroism some day, young sword-master!\" I think her smile or her raven-hued hair or her eyes or something cast a spell on me. Lots of time seemed to pass, and then I heard Lumina.

\"Let's go, Dorian\" called Lumina. It was time to go. I waved to Warburton and Miss Truestar, and caught up to the rest of the column that had already crossed the bridge. \"She's not that pretty, Dorian,\" Lumina said, and she marched up ahead of me quickly like girls do when they get all crazy and secretive. \"Yes she is\" said the captain, who came up behind me as he stalked the lines. \"Yes she is...\"

=== The Tents at the Gates ===

By the end of the day, we got to the north gate of the Castle. There was a bunch of torches burning in a ring around a group of large tents outside the big steel gates, and lots of soldiers rode out to meet us long before we arrived. I remembered seeing carrier pigeons leaving from Fort Luminous as we marched away from there, and I guess the people at the Castle knew we would be here tonight.

Anyway, a whole platoon from second company marched up to us when we were about 300 yards from the tents, and the questions began there. I wished I was up front, because there were merchants ahead of us that were put through all the questions they had been asked at the Fort, but this time, I was behind them instead of in front, so this time, Lumina and I had to wait, rather than just get waved through.

Only, I would have had to wait anyway. A tough looking lieutenant came up when it was our turn and asked who I was. \"Dorian Dale, sir\" and I saluted. \"Late of the 1st company, sir, and accompanying Miss Lumina Whitegate to the Castle, sir, with your leave!\"

\"Dale, eh?\" he said, as he looked me up and down. \"Did I hear 'late' of the 1st, soldier?\"

\"Sir, yes you did sir! Did my two years, sir, and, well...\" I began to stammer and think, but he cut me off.

\"2 years is all we ask. Come here for bounties, eh? Come here seeking fortune?\"

\"Sir, no sir. I come here with Miss Whitegate, and we only come seeking the Sun\"

\"Whitegate, eh?\" he fixed his eyes on her, but he didn't look her up and down so much. He was a harsh man, but not disrespectful. \"Whitegate...where do I know that name from, young lady?\"

\"Lieutenant...?\" Lumina didn't seem to know how to answer the officer's silly question.

\"She's Luminous’...\" I was cut off by him again.

\"I'm asking her, late of the first! Don't interrupt me!\" He turned back to Lumina and asked \"Whitegate, is it? Yes?\" and fixed his eyes on hers.

She looked down and crossed her hands in front of herself and nodded. I looked to one side of me to see a couple of merchants being asked a bunch of questions that had them looking at the ground too, and one man was red in the face and looking away, looking like he was about to start yelling, but knew better of it. 

\"What's your business at the Castle, Miss...Whitegate...?\" he asked, emphasizing her last name like it was some crazy Calishite name or something.

\"Well, lieutenant, um, sir...\" she was stammering a bit now too. She had also been in the first company with me, and I wondered why she didn't say as much, but I think she was worried about offending him, so she just gathered her courage, looked up, and said \"I'm here to fetch bounties, sir. I'm going to be a famous adventurer, like Mr. Dale here. And I'm going to see my grandfather!\"

The stony face of the lieutenant softened for just a second, and he waved us through, and pointed up to the tents. We heard him giving some poor, tired mason behind us the same interrogation he might give a known Zhent or goblin spy.

We marched up the steep rocky road towards the north gate. The way was difficult, and we passed by most of the merchants and masons ahead of us, who had heavy loads and wagons to deal with. We caught up with the small platoon of Sun Blades that had accompanied us all this way, and I saw the captain handing his papers over to another captain at the tents. They saluted, and our escorts went in through the gates.

Ahead of us were more questions, though. There were four tents there; all big yellow tents about 30' square, with bright yellow banners at their five posts slapping violently in the wind, which never stops up here so high in the mountains. Sun Blades directed us to the first tent in the neat row.

Under the first tent were three oak desks, with a priest sitting at the centre one, and a pair of clerks sitting to his sides at the others. \"Welcome to Bloody Hand Mountain, travelers\" he said in a plain and uninterested voice. The two of us were directed to stand in front of the two flanking desks, where the two clerks took down the answers to the priest’s long chain of questions.

\"What is your name?\"

\"Do you have any other names or identities?\"

\"In what year were you born?\"

\"Where were you born?\"

\"What are your parents’ names? Where were they born?\"

\"Where did you last live? Do your parents still live there?\"

\"What is your occupation? What was your father’s occupation? Are your parents still alive?\"

\"What god or gods do you worship? Do you know anyone who worships any evil gods, or who might be under the influence of Shar? Have you ever been under the influence of Shar? Are you here because you are an agent of Shar or of Netheril?\"

The questions like that kept coming, and they got more outlandish as they went along. I think he asked us if we had \"performed any rites to any evil gods involving the slaughter of innocent children, the eating of human flesh or the fornicating with beasts, demons, or members of the same sex?\" It was a dizzying interview, and I felt a little ashamed about it, but we answered well enough, I guess, because we were both waved through to the next tent.

The second tent had another three desks, but this time an old soldier sat in the middle, while two clerks took down more records. This old soldier asked us questions about fighting and war and our experiences. Then he gave us quick instructions about what the different bells in the Castle mean, and, most importantly, what we have to do when we hear the Six Bells, which is the war-alarm. He gave us directions to a tower in the outer wall, and gave us the name of an officer to report to if we hear the alarm, and he took our names and rostered us. He then motioned us to the next tent.

The third tent was quick for us. I guess it is all about trading in the Castle, and the clerks there were happy enough just to hear that we had nothing to trade, and after they took stock of how much gold we had with us, they motioned us to the last tent.

The fourth and final tent had two rows of low wooden benches, and we were the first to sit down. There was a small podium-box on which a middling rank priest stood, and he looked at us warmly, and then at the line of other travelers going through all the questions at the tents behind us. \"As soon as the benches are full, we'll begin\" he explained. I wasn't sure what he was talking about, and when I looked to Lumina to see if she knew, I found her giving me the same look. It was getting late and dark, and after most of an hour had passed, the benches were full, and the priest began.

\"Castle Radiance is built upon the promising light of Amaunator\" he began. He went on about that sort of thing for a while, and while he said a couple of times that all good gods could be worshiped in the Castle, Amaunator has Primacy. He then began into the long list of rules for the Castle. I was familiar with most of them, because they sounded like the rules I lived by during my two years of service. No drinking, no gambling, no cursing, that sort of thing. All good rules that keep a military operation running smooth and respectable. \"No fighting inside the walls except in defense of the Castle, under pain of death\" he said, and that was a shocker. In fact, lots of rules were enforced 'under pain of death', including lying about your faith, stealing, forgery, and cowardice. I sort of dozed off while he was going through his long list of rules, but I did hear him say that littering and defecating in public were punishable by fine and imprisonment. At least they won't kill me if I really have to go!

I guess they don't have time for people who can't follow the rules here. Anyway, at last he gave us instructions to report to our accommodations right away, as curfew would begin soon.

We were ushered inside the gates, and I saw that platoon from the Second start to take down the tents quickly, and port in the desks and cases of ledgers, and at that time, the captain we had traveled with found us lingering at the gates, and brought us up and up and up through the confusing walls and yards of the Castle to the barracks hall that I am now in. It was too dark out and too fast and confusing a trip to take in the Castle, but tonight, as I write this, I can look out my window to the west, across another two ridges of smaller and then smaller mountains, and under the light of the moon, I can see the vast plains of Netheril.
