22 Ches, 1483 DR — Jeska Kills Grimaldous

[Source: Daggerdale - All Chapter 7 Content - june 11 revised.docx, extracted 2026-04-09. Third-person arena narration of the killing blow. Distinct from Sanduskyn Vale's first-person account of the same moment.]

As Jeska pulls her rapier from the dying Dragonborn's back, the massive creature slowly lurches forward, and falls stiffly to the ground, where with a great wet thud, it comes to rest, a small cloud hovering over it drenching it in rain, which causes tendrils of watery blood to grow in the mud.

There isn't a noise in the crowd after the landing of Grimaldous on the ground, as everyone takes in what has happened. The first noises are the gasps of those that have realized what has happened, which are accompanied by the thudding noise of Eclose being stabbed into the wood of the platform. All eyes are on the platform at the moment, as Jeska folds her hands in front of her. A moment of chaos follows.

"Kill that accursed dwarf next, madame elf!" one voice cries out, quickly followed by a cacophony of cheers, screaming and yelling. Jeska, seeing Hassle Redwater glaring up at her, lowers her head, and in a loud voice that quiets the stands, says "Chrysalis concedes this round in honor of your fallen!"

The slightest smile crosses Redwater's face.

At this point, it is clear that one of the magistrates is restraining the dwarf with divine magic, while the rest of the Redjacks start to approach to collect their fallen teammate. Ambassador Whitmore motions to quiet the crowd, and looks as though he will speak again, when he is cut off by Jeska. "Death among allies for good in a 'competition' is… shameful." She turns her eyes to the judges' tower. "From this moment, Team Chrysalis will use only non-lethal weaponry. If you agree, Master Redwater, we are willing to meet again for the second round."

Hassle's smile widens, as he glares up at the elf. He looks quickly to the tower, where the Ambassador nods assent. In a loud and rumbling voice, Hassle replies, "We'd gladly meet you again, she-elf. You'll of course sit one of your team for the remainder of our two matches I'm sure. You'll have the benefit of having your teammate after the match, which we will not enjoy."
