A narrative from the DM about Dwimmerholme Farm in the Autumn of 1481 DR

Dwimmerholme is a smaller farming village compared to many in the Dale.  It is home to only a few hundred villagers, and the walls which enclose the village proper are only a few hundred feet long on a side.  The walls themselves are roughly oval in shape; they are only 10’ high field stone, much of it dry-laid.  Atop this, wooden battlements have been constructed, with six wooden towers about 25’ high in total topping the stone. You notice that at one tower, there are improvements being made; scaffolding faces the tower and dressed stone is scattered about the base.  The walls and battlements, especially close to the gate, are hung with many autumnal decorations; wreaths of golden and orange leaves hang down in long loops, and stocks of dried corn and some root vegetables are hung in clusters every 10’ or so; the harvest was excellent this year, and they are showing their gratitude to Chauntea in a most conspicuous manner.

Although you have been travelling through large corn and wheat fields for the last mile, there are many smaller gardens outside the walls of the village, separated by a maze of low stone fences and hedge rows. Most of them are empty this time of year, but some late-harvest crops are attended by creepy-looking scarecrows; the tattered rags that are used to dress up the sticks and bales that constitute the bodies of these silent sentinels are topped by angry, glowing faces; pumpkins have been hollowed out and cut into devilish likenesses, and are back-lit by flickering candles.  This is a tradition that is rare in the dales these days, but some of you have heard tales of Jack-o-Lanterns from centuries past, before Amuanator was so prominent in the dale.

On the wooden battlements, a platoon of Sun Blades, mixed with about a third militia, patrol with great vigilance.  They challenge you as soon as you get close, but you really don’t have any problems getting in; there are no clerks to harass you at the gates.  Indeed, it isn’t long before the mayor, a retired Sun Blade veteran named Darius Winters, greets you and shows you into the tightly-packed village.

Inside the walls, every inch of space has been used by narrow streets, buildings and gardens.  At the west side of the village are a few barns that hold much of the livestock for the farm.  A small courtyard in the centre of the village, about 100’ on a side, borders the four main buildings of the settlement; the church, the fortress, the inn and the market.

Most of the buildings are decorated in the orange and yellow seasonal accoutrements that underscore both the season and the level of influence of Chauntea at this farm.  A few of the jack-o-lanterns that were seen outside in the gardens also decorate scare-crows in the small gardens inside the walls, and a few sit decapitated on the sills and porches of the small homes of the village.  For those unaccustomed to such decour, the maniacal faces carved into the things and the malevolent light behind their eyes is disconcerting.  This is an odd tradition, especially for those of you that keep Amaunator.

In escort with the mayor and a few Sun Blades, your group draws a bit of attention; faces poke from behind windows and doors to take you in, and some folk plainly come out of doors to stand and stare at the lot of you.  Overall, there is a brooding miasma over this town; it is nearly palpable.  The people do not rush to come out and meet you like folk do with most travelers in every settlement in the dale.  The villagers and farmers here are aloof and morose.  Sadness hangs above the place like a low ceiling.

The mayor ultimately brings you to the small fortress where he keeps office.  This fortress is about 150’ on a side, made of stone blocks, and is about 35’ high at the two towers that overlook the walls.  The mayor’s office is just off to the right inside the main gates, so that you get to see little of the place.  

The mayor’s office is small but well-appointed.  It is about 15’ x 15’, but the walls are covered in rich oak panels, and the floor is covered in a thick burgundy rug.  There is a book case half empty, a desk, and a meeting table around which are arrayed a half-dozen chairs.  At one chair, presently taking to his feet, is the yellow-robed magistrate of the village.  

Magistrate Renfrew is young for a magistrate.  He is in fact, the second youngest in the dale (Banitt holding the distinction).  His hair and eyebrows are stark white, though he has a healthy complexion about the face.  His features are square and handsome, and his blue eyes dart about you all with a friendly inquisitiveness.  He speaks with a feigned confidence that betrays his youth and inexperience. However, he seems intelligent, and for a magistrate, he seems like a good listener.

The mayor is likewise young; perhaps 28 or 29, and is a recently retired Sun Blade Forester who spent 10 years in Cormanthor fighting the enemies of the dale.  He is stout and well-muscled, and has many scars on his arms and head; this is a veteran of many skirmishes.  He has the characteristic features of a Chondathan; brown hair, blue eyes, fair skin.  He is quiet in demeanour for the most part, and when he does speak, it is in short succinct sentences.  He does not seem to be the ideal candidate for a mayor, but here he sits.

Before long all introductions are completed, and you are all seated about the table.

The pair of officials here explain the situation to you; that on the 2nd of Marpenoth, there was a horrible attack on the farm.  One man, Macalister Dale was killed, and three families were taken away.  There are no witnesses to this attack, but the boots of the abductors all seem to be roughly human sized.  The magistrate furnishes you with an official list of the missing.

“We are grateful you are here” Renfrew begins.  “But to be honest, I am not sure what 5 people can do to aid us?  I have requisitioned a platoon of Foresters, and I am assured that they will be deployed here within a tenday.  I am assured of this.”  The mayor grimaces a bit, which the magistrate notices.  “A tenday may seem like a long time, but one little girl managed to escape, and survived for five days, hunted by a team of men though she was.  We will root out these slavers with our own resources.  Please do not mistake my gratitude, though; I am thankful that you have come all this way to help.  I will not stand in the way of any investigation that you might carry out, but I cannot commit resources of any variety to assist you.  I will not authorize soldiers to go beyond our fields until the Foresters are here to help.”  He puts on a weak smile that is less insincere than it is unsure.  He rises and gives a slight bow (something most Magistrates don’t do), and exits.

This leaves you in the room with the hard-looking ex-military mayor.  He has been holding his breath along with his words until the magistrate leaves.  “He means well, he really does” explains Winters.  “He’s the third magistrate this farm has had in three years.  The people loved Hoetmer.  They hated Willems.  He came down too hard on the Chaunteans after the Dark Garden business.  They actually had him removed, somehow...” he drifts off for a second.  “Well, now the people have Renfrew and I.  Both of us are new, and we are dealing with a terrible tragedy.  I for one will welcome any help, and offer you what aid is mine to give.”  He pauses for a moment.

“I have put together a small fund to help you out, if you’ll have it.  I know that soldiers don’t work for free; it is expensive business, soldiering men.  And we need to get our people back.  We’ve put together nearly 300 gold.  We can give you half of that for heading out there, and giving us your word that you will do your damndest to find those people. If you find any alive, we’ll give you the rest.  Sound fair?”
