A Letter sent from Alen Reks to Andrea Stuard on the 5th of Marpenoth, 1481.  Delivered by Sgt. Hennigan Paros, unopened.

Dearest Andrea;

I received your correspondence, and I am most aghast at the situation. Your information was as timely as it was appreciated. Things are not right in the Dale, and it falls to the White Cloaks to correct it.

As such, I have sent you a gift.

I recently came into the possession of a troupe of semi-competent and highly-motivated individuals, and being one to simply leap headfirst into things, I promptly hired them and sent them on their way to help you.

I trust that you will steer them in the right direction, in a manner that suits your needs and the needs of your small town. Regrettably, I must remain in Dagger Falls, buried beneath a relentless onslaught of bureaucratic tom-foolery and other things that grown men such as myself must endure. That, and Hastings is being more abrasive than usual. Perhaps the moon is full, if you catch my drift.

Where was I?

Ah. Yes. Despite my Bravo Team being entirely at your disposal, please do not consider them disposable (which isn't to say that I'm suggesting you lack the proper foresight to direct a team such as them, of course). They have potential, and I would like to see them blossom to their fullest. Anything other than that would have been a waste of time and effort, and this last month has drained me considerably. To concoct another team of erstwhile adventurers is more than my frail self can endure at this moment. And so I leave them in your capable hands.

The Sergeant here is neither your subordinate nor your superior. I expect you to co-operate, but not at your personal expense. At the risk of sounding like an ass, you are a valuable asset that I consider indispensable, so mind yourself first and foremost in all interactions with my Bravo Team. This will be their first excursion as a team, and so their baby steps will more than likely be clumsier than I have anticipated.

In my Sergeant's possession is a letter to be delivered to your humble mayor, either by your hand or his. It outlines my considerations and opinions on a proper method of payment for our soon-to-be-made efforts in your town, which fall under his jurisdiction. I understand you have been making an effort to strike some manner of a deal with him. I wish you the best in your efforts, and put my faith in you entirely. I consider you a part of the White Cloaks, and so your motivation on the matter is as much out of self-interest as it is for any genuine desire to assist my company in the acquisition of the necessary life blood needed for it to survive.

A big bonus is on the way for you. I understand that this is a considerable increase in the usual work load I have placed upon you. Your diligence is appreciated.

Alen}}
