A letter delivered by the hand of Shea, avenger of Amaunator, on the 26th of Eleint, 1481, to Alen Reks, at Loedegan Close
----
Eleint 22, 1481 DR.

Administrator Reks;

This message is dispatched by the hand of a woman we can both trust.  She is a pilgrim who came to see the White Blade, but has proven her faith and her mettle already.  But I’m ahead of myself.

As you may be aware, we have had some small troubles with bandits on our roads. By all accounts, it looks as though the Zhents, of all things, are at work in the Dale again after many decades absent.  There have been some road-side abductions in our region, and if the rumours are true, they are preying on almost every road in our fair Dale.  I have heard from the Magistrate at Charity Hills that a small caravan that left from our farm never made it to them, leaving a dozen souls unaccounted for.

Just two days ago, one of these acts of villainy was foiled on the Pilgrim’s Road.  The Aegis Peregrinus, our common friend, was watching that road, carrying out his divinely-appointed duties, and he happened upon they very group of slavers that had taken the small caravan some few days earlier.  He had with him our sister, Shea, who shares many of Alystair’s skills and passions.  These two hands of Amaunator’s Retribution quickly dispatched the slavers and freed the caravan-members in short order.  Some slavers gave flight but not a soul escaped alive.  Alystair was methodical in his investigation of the slain, and discovered upon many, the mark of the Zhentilar; a black tattoo upon the shoulder.

The freed caravaners all give the same report; that they were captured on the road between Liberty Hill and Charity Hills, and were made to march through the woods for two days, to circumnavigate around our farm.  They then joined the Pilgrim Trail, whereupon they were discovered.  The more well-travelled of the lot claim that the men had accents from Marsember.  They also claim that these men were operating under orders from an unseen director, and they were nervous about the entire operation.  Rightly so, I guess.

I have asked Alystair if he will be reporting to you during the absence of the Captain.  He stated, with one syllable if I recall, that he would not.

I had a discussion with Alystair about his thoughts on this operation when he declined to report, and he stated that he was not convinced that a few rag-tag slavers could be in charge of this malignant operation.  He told me that he will have to get hold of some of these men alive next time, and ‘cut the truth from them.’  All this is to say; there may be Zhents preying on the roads, but they will not be using the roads to transport their ill-gotten ‘merchandise’.

I recommend the woman conveying this note to you; she is as virtuous as she is dangerous.

:Yours in the Light Always,
:Banitt
}}
