A note addressed to someone named Belduran, found in a scroll tube the corpse of the Zhentarim wizard, Gilth'zan. The note was accompanied by the Harper Pin belonging to Ansal Bloodshoulder.

Belduran;

I fear my last letter must have gotten lost. I was expecting your word or presence yesterday.

Conflict with the angry Uruk’Dun is inevitable at this point. There has been skirmishing between our scouts and theirs already. The Zhent enchanter Gilth'zan has mastered enough of his tricks to mobilize the Uruk’Dun for one last campaign. He has been spotted amongst them, which worries us. Orcs aren’t too dangerous when left to quibble amongst themselves, but with a leader...

This brings me to my most important point: at all costs, we must cut the head from the snake. The company Ersgul, lead by the Zhent Yarkul, is to blame for this mess, and the angry vengeance they extract now, would best be averted by destroying Yarkul and Ersgul in Waterdeep.

The Company has many minions in Neverwinter, but in the finest tradition of destroying the Zhent influence in the north, it is better to eat this snake head first; the tail slides down smoothly afterward. Our friend Zaltim has been working on this assignment for some time. I am displeased to inform you that our long-time comrade, Laurel Dawn, has perished at the hands of Ersgul. Zaltim continues without her, with a band of adventurers.

Of special note, amongst this band, is the Selûnite Rufus, one of Selûne’s Chosen. This lycanthrope has a true heart, and has two nominations for invitation into the order.

If we never meet again, please find Zaltim and assist him in destroying Company Ersgul in Waterdeep. You should seek out our colleague Thagdul, who operates a company called Drurginz in the Dockward of the City. This comrade and one-time partner of mine has been warring with the Zhents in a most clever guise, for quite some time. You and Zaltim should take up the task of finding Thagdul, and destroying Ersgul.

All of this, of course, after you bail us out of the Uruk’Dun cooking-pot.

With Godspeed, Belduran

AB}}
