It had only been a day since Carpathia had left the side of the Gryphon.

Some thought in her mind tugged at her, and she found concentration difficult. She had decided to skirt the Snowflake Mountains rather than attempting to cross them with her horse and cart. She wrote of the incessant thrumming in her head as guilt for not having buried the wondrous creature before she left. But something told her the Gryphon was not meant to be interred in stone and earth. It was only after setting up camp, and finishing a sparse meal that the real reason struck her. The feather.

She looked everywhere in her camp, within her belongings, all through the loose planks of her cart. But the feather was nowhere to be found. She cursed herself, and cursed Malar for bringing yet another misfortune upon her. Without delay she packed up her camp and travelled through the night. She reached the location where she had previously ascended at dawn. The sun was shedding its first rays of golden light over the peaks before her.

She searched for the narrow smooth trough, which she had ascended the previous day. It was not to be found. Looking up the slope from the location she was sure the trough ended, only a ragged, cracked age-old crevasse could be found. It was as if the mountain had aged 100 years in a day. She stood there, looking up, perplexed and unable to move until the sun had reached half way to the pinnacle of its climb.

With a shake of her head, under the heat of a sun that seemed too close, she began to climb up through the crevasse. No geological mystery could dissuade her forever. Not from finding that which she sought. The climb that had taken only minutes the previous day took her hours. By the time she reached the plateau she sought her hands were covered in her blood, cut ragged from clutching the jagged edges of rock. The pain had not deterred her; she kept her focus on her goal. At one point she thought of the mare “Freedom” below. And the disruption in focus made the pain all too real in her hands and limbs. She had to fight to remain conscious and put it aside.

Upon reaching the plateau, and looking across to where the Gryphon had lain, all pain was completely forgotten. Where just yesterday she has sat and held the head of the magical creature, only a skull remained.

She moved forward with some caution, unable to grasp reality. She reached out and picked up the skull, touching it brought her mind back under control – and more. Her knowledge increased tenfold, and she knew, without question, that this skull, was that of a Gryphon that had died here, more than 200 years ago.

Upon closer inspection of the partial skull, she received her second shock. A petrified feather was fused to the crown of the beak. A petrified feather she recognized. It was her feather...
