A narrative read to the players after the resolution of Bravo Tourney

For what seems like an hour, the lot of you have been seated at the ornate table set in the second-floor dining room of the Close. Stern wooden benches support your battle-weary bones as you bide your time. Two uncomfortably comfortable-looking chairs sit at either end of the table, suspiciously unoccuptied. At the very least, the gradually warming scent of fresh dinner wafting in from distant halls, tempting your imaginations and stomachs, is enough to ease any anxious or impatient thoughts that may have crossed your minds. The proceedings directly following your victory were something of a strange blur. Disconcerting, to say in the least.

Abruptly hurried inside, dried off, dressed in all manner of threaded finery by several servants sporting severly stressed countenances, and then hurried back again up an overlong flight of stairs to be seated for a dinner you hadn't expected with a host who had yet to arrive, despite his being in clear attendance at the conclusion of the tournament. Administrator Alen Reks had invited you to a celebration devoid of any attendees other than yourselves. Or himself. Or anyone.

Silence lingers in the air, periodically disturbed by the awkward squawk of benches being adjusted, forks and knives being fiddled with, side-long small talk and discussion of the battle prior and what, perhaps, has yet to come now that the lot of you stand victorious as the new White Cloaks Bravo team.

Such dicussion, however, is put on hold at the growing pitter-patter of tiny feet. A swelling ruckus of children's voices calling out in excitement, arrives in the dining hall, followed shortly thereafter by the children themselves, crashing in a vicious scramble against the rocky shore of the oaken table. Within moments, the benches are filled on either side of the lot of you by an assortment of youths ranging from toddler to teen, nearly twenty or so in total, all of them bickering amongst themselves over spots and utensils and other things of dire importance, including the attention of yourselves most importantly.

The clamour dies down almost as quickly as it had begun, however, with a high-pitched whistle cutting through the shouting as though it were the sharpest of blades. The children quiet down and seat themselves on their hands and their bottoms, eyes turned towards the doorway they had just emerged from, faces puckered with anticipation. The abrupt silence is broken once more the arrival of Administrator Reks and Lady Blackmane on his arm, which she seems less than enthused about to those capable of noticing any hint of emotion hiding amongst the statuesque expression on her pretty face. Alen, in stark contrast, is smiling brightly as ever. The elf is well dressed and cuts a dashing figure as he escorts the Lady to her seat, afterwards slowly making his way to the head of the table and his own cushioned seat, eyes rolling steadily over the accumulated faces on both sides of the table as he does so.

Without a word, Administrator Reks reaches into the folds of his jacket, withdraws what appears to be a small bird, and taps the top of its feathered head with two delicate fingers. The creature whistles once more, a different but equally high-pitched tone as the one from moments earlier, and within seconds servants are sweeping into the dining hall carrying trays and saucers laden with a variety of delectable meats, vegetables and breads still steaming from the oven, placing them one-by-one in front of the occupants of the table, with the sole exception of you five individuals.

The servants sweep out of the room like clockwork, and the Administrator quickly replaces the bird within the folds of his jacket, nodding at Lady Blackmane from across the table.

\"I would request a toast,\" Alen said in a smooth voice,\"but with children present, such a thing would be most disagreeable. This rabble is more than enough to handle without liquor thrown into the mix, eh? Ah hah, yes.\"

And without any further words, Alen spears a piece of potato with his fork and pops it into his mouth, chewing the morsel slowly and deliberately, eyes wandering over the accumulated faces. Hasting appears to be disinterested as ever. The children are enthralled and horrified all at the same time, eyes flicking between the Administrator and their own plates, along with the empty ones occupying the places infront of the Bravo Team.

After an awkward minute of chewing, smile ever-widening, Alen swallows and sighs contentedly, then waves a hand at the table.

\"Mhmm, mhmm, no poison tonight. It's delicious, proceed with your meal.\" And with that, the children set upon their food with great purpose, and the dining hall is filled with noise once again. 

For nearly fifteen minutes Alen and the children are at it, enjoying their dinner while you five sit and watch, decidedly non-plussed and perhaps a bit irritated by your lack of meal. At any mention, or attempt to do so, Alen waves a hand at you and places one index finger over his food-stained lips, wagging it back and forth so as to insist on your patience. As soon as they finish, the children take up their plates and utensils and scamper out of the dining hall piece-meal, until all that remains is the Bravo Team, Administrator Reks and Lady Blackmane, to whom Alen passes a pleasant glance, before gazing about the lot of you.

\"I must offer you my sincerest congratulations, you've all done marvellously. Were I a better host, which I am, of course, disregarding current circumstances, I would offer you a meal, but you five, alas, will not be remaining here for long.\"

And he affects a shocked expression.

\"But what do you mean, Administrator? Which is how I will be addressed from this point onwards, owing to the fact that you lot are now official auxiliary members of the White Cloaks, designated White Cloak Bravo team. The current state of the White Cloaks leaves much to be desired in terms of competent bodies. As such, you five have proven yourselves to both be competent in battle and in possession of said aforementioned bodies. Therefore, I consider this entire endeavour a success. You'll be walking in the footsteps of giants, my friends, and therefore I expect at least an ounce of professionalism and decorum when representing the White Cloaks. What we stand for, what we hope to accomplish, and the means we go about doing it -- all of these reflect not only individuals, but the company as a whole, and therefore I expect you lot to act in an... approvable fashion. But I digress. This has already been explained to you before the tournament. Pay and lodging and all that contractual nonsense will be hammered out in your absence.\"

For a moment, Alen's eyes acquire a blank stare, as though he has fallen off his carefully laid path. He looks to Blackmane. Her heavy lids lower a smidge as she regards the Administrator, shuddering beneath a generous measure of disdain. Reks claps his hands with delight, train of thought restored.

\"Ah, yes, you won't be here for long. Apologies, I honestly don't know why you all bothered getting so nicely dressed when you would be heading out so soon. I'm flattered, of course, but it was a waste of time. You see, you have a mission which you will be embarking upon immediately.\"

With this statement, the Administrator's tone sharpens noticable, and from somewhere beneath the table he withdraws three crisp letters, neatly sealed with a dab of red wax. With a sharp flick of his wrist, the letters slide across, coming to a rest before the Sergeant.

\"The one addressed to you is for your attention only. The other to will be explained in your letter. Share this information at your discretion, delegating as you see fit.\"

The Administrator leans forward and gazes at the lot of you over the smooth crest of his knuckles, green eyes examining you one-by-one.

\"At the conclusion of this briefing, you will make your way to the servants quarters in the western wing of the Close. There you will change into appropriate attire for a group of individuals travelling by caravan. Outside you will find three carts laden with nothing of any particular interest to anyone. You will take these wagons north to Dwimmerholme Farm at a casual pace, and once you arrive you will acquire lodgings at the Amber Hart Inn and rest there. You will make contact with a liason of mine and she will assist you in your... investigation.\"

\"I'm sure you're aware of the recent slew of disappearances and abductions taking place in the region. Dwimmerholme is the most recent lead we have on these happenings. Your objectives are two-fold. First, you will be investigating the disappearances of three families worth of townsfolk from Dwimmerholme Farm. Finding them and, if necessary, rescuing them is top priority. Their safety is paramount. Second, in the process of finding these individuals, you will be investigating the rumours of Zhentarim activities in the region. Encountering such individuals is a definate eventuality that you will have to be prepared for. Subdue and question them by any means available to you. The safety of the dale depends on it. For the good of Daggerdale, we need to know where they're operating out of, what they're doing, and how they're doing it. If you have any questions, now is the time.\"
