Captain Whitegate,

Tuugan and I have recently uncovered a most devious plot unfolding within the region. Its roots are tied to our dreams, the Dark Garden is flowering. We began our investigation here in Dagger Falls a few days prior to the Harvestide festival. [Note: I have secured a room for 1 year at Quick Axes for White Cloak members use.]

We investigated a shady dealing involving a caravan master of the  named Tzunamm, his Mercenary troupe leader named Yarlick Mean, a woman named Lotus, and the . The investigation was aided in small way by Magistrate Invictus, and would end with Tuugan and I departing for Dwimmerholme Farm the next day.

Dwimmerholme was besieged by foul works: wolves acting unnaturally, acres of land being burnt, and a succession of orcish raids were most prevalent. With the aid of Magistrate Hoetmer, and a Netherese Prayer Book in his keeping, we were able to root out and stop a Ritual called the Ritual of Founding from occurring. This ritual would be used to create a new Sect of Shar at Dwimmerholme. The dream was also accurate in its foretelling.

===Ritual of Founding===

Three sacrifices are required

*The first is followed by a boon
*The second is preceded by a boon (sacrifice greater than first)
*The third sacrifice comes before the boon (greatest sacrifice)

The three sacrifices are timed to be one month apart, and a high Ranking individual in the Cult of Shar must be present at the sacrifices. A powerful Relic must be present at the third sacrifice. The most important supplicants appear to time the final sacrifice with the new moon, as well as celestial events.

Although Tuugan and I managed to prevent the Ritual at Dwimmerholme, during the second Sacrifice, I fear a greater evil was carried out that same night (Harvestide) in Dagger Falls. Indeed, I believe the ceremony of the third sacrifice was completed, establishing a new Sect of the Cult in Dagger Falls.

My reasoning is thus. Harvestide is a great celestial event, and the most prevalent event this time of year. It would fit that the third sacrifice be carried out that night. However, the ceremony Tuugan and I interrupted was only the second. It fits that a more important Supplicant was established elsewhere, and by the dream the Dark Garden centre is Dagger Falls. It is also my belief that the Artefact being utilized is The Black Hand of Saint Gaebril. Since it must be present at the third sacrifice, no two Sects can be established the same night.

Although late in this report, I must now speak of the woman named Lotus. She was the high-ranking Sharran at the ceremony Tuugan and I interrupted. She is I believe a Kenku, and possibly a shapeshifter as well, I know she can take the form of a Raven as I have borne witness to it. She commanded a group of Krinth, which Tuugan and I dispatched. She is commonly seen as woman of height approximately 5’4”, she has short black hair and birdlike features.

Two more women are in league with her. One is tall and stunning, with dark hair and very light skin, while the other is less well kept, with shoulder length curly dark hair. It is said she smells of the woods.

I believe these three to be the ring leaders, and high priestesses of Shar. Lotus was at the Dwimmerholme ceremony, so someone else had to preside over the Dagger falls ceremony.

I need not say that we must make every effort to see these women brought to justice.

As a last note, I fear I have more bad news. During the time of the supplication of Roger Dunland in Dwimmerholme, all messages to and from Dagger Falls failed to reach their destinations.

Captain, trust the dreams. The sacrifices used at the Dwimmerholme ceremonies were indeed a White Goat and White Cow.

I hope this report finds you well, I will send another after Tuugan and I reach Dagger Falls.

Yours in Faith,

— Alystair}}
