Amaunator plays a central role in Daggerdale of 1479.  Most of the residents of the dale attribute their security and success to Amaunator's intervention in the dale.  Shortly after the death of Mystra, the beginning of the Spellplague, and the withdrawal of Lathander from the Realms, Daggerdale was is a state of panic.  The two main faiths that had kept the dale safe for a century were now powerless, and enemies seemed to be appearing and growing stronger by the day.

However, Ardelusk Whitegate received some sort of a message from Amaunator, as he slowly grew in power while diemorphing from Lathander into his present (and ancient) form.  He was shown a vein of gold in the West Hill mine, and he led a pilgrimage from the dale out to mark the discovery.  This tale is best told in the Whitegate Epiphany, an epic poem that talks of Ardelusk's journey; from stone mason in the remote west, to Zhent slave, to freed man, to prophet and salvation of Daggerdale, more or less.

Amaunator is indeed the state religion in Daggerdale; all the heads of state are also heads of the church.  Argent Whitegate is the Zenith Lord of Amaunator in Daggerdale, and also holds the powers of the Governor, though he has ceased using that title, 'Zenith Lord' now being recognized as a title that covers rule of both church and dale.

The chief source of wealth and power for the church has long been the West Hill mine, now called the Whitegate Mine.  Since it was reopened by Ardelusk nearly 100 years ago, 90% of the profit from the mine has been given to the church, and the church has given all back to the community in return.  

The many public works that have been initiated and completed by the church in the last several decades have been impressive and lasting works of stone with many carved friezes representing Amaunator and the church in Daggerdale.  Strong walls, bridges, fortresses, cathedrals and other works are all adorned with statuary and carvings illustrating the power of Amuanator, and the first-time visitor to the dale will be under no misconceptions about the primacy of this faith in Daggerdale.

== See also: ==
*Structure and details of the Church of Amaunator in Daggerdale 
*Amaunator and His Followers
