It is another two days of travel from Crossed Blades to the town of Dagger Falls.  With the size of the host you are traveling with, there are no problems, though you do continue to see evidence of former battles along the way, and at a large campsite at the half-way mark, Sun Blade scouts say that a large group of orcs had been waiting in the woods around the clearing, but cleared off when they saw your numbers.

As you approach the town itself, you can smell it a long way off; the smell of livestock and several tanneries carries down-wind to you long before you can see the place.  The walls and tall buildings of the town are visible from a hilltop several miles away, and even from this distance you can make out that the town is prosperous; there are several large buildings, and some of them are made of stone so white and polished that they glow in the sunlight.

Once you emerge from the Tethyamar Trail, you find yourself over 500 yards away from the town itself; the forest around the town is relentlessly cleared, and even though it is evening when you arrive, there is still a small group of woodsmen nearby who are felling small oaks that have taken root and grown unnaturally fast.

Your approach to the town is all down hill from the edge of the forest.  The town lies at the nadir of the Tesh Valley, and you can see the wide, deep river flowing fast and cold through the town, and looking to the east and west you can trace the contours of the long, fertile valley which has been the impetus for human settlement here for 400 years.

From the distance, there are several buildings that are clearly visible over the 30’ stone walls that completely encircle the town.  The two that attract the most attention are the Morning Star Cathedral and The Tower.  Both of these buildings have been refaced in the last 40 years with the expertly dressed white stone that has become almost a new symbol for this dale.  The Tower is a large, but modest in design, though it has withstood over 300 years of tribulations.  The Cathedral is a marvel, though, and there are few now in Faerûn who have seen such architecture.  Indeed, as a new visitor to Dagger Falls approaches the gates, your eyes never stray far from the resplendent building, even when you are in the shadow of the outer walls, and the Cathedral is partially obscured.

===Entry into Town===

There is a great bridge of stone which crosses the Tesh, and upon this bridge was built, in the time of the Zhents, a grand fortress called the Bridgegate.  It is stout and imposing, and the weight of the thing calls for the bridge to be composed of a dozen arched-channels which let the river rush beneath.  A set of double doors 20’ wide and 30’ high, made of polished steel and now hung with the yellow tabard of the dale, bars your entry.

As your train draws closer to the gates, a few of the Sun Blades race up ahead, and before they have crossed the several hundred yards of road, those great gates spew out a host of robed men, and another two platoons of Sun Blades, these on foot, before they clanged shut again with a deep boom.  Before long, your train is slowing to a halt in a long, neat line starting at the steel doors, and soldier and clerks are moving up the line, interrogating people and taking stock of everything in the wagons.  You feel a churning in your stomach as you watch the hired-guards ahead be interrogated by one of the yellow-robed clerks, and you can see that the line of questioning is making the men ahead uncomfortable.  You see that a small group of hired guards that were accompanying the merchants who joined your train at the farm are escorted out of the line, and off to the side.  They are asked more questions by a more senior-looking priest, and the four of them begin to look very nervous, and one begins some sort of pleading.  By this time, all the people in the train are watching this interrogation, though no one is close enough to hear it.  You are staring intently, growing more and more nervous by the minute, when one of the men begins to gesticulate wildly, and the other three are joining in with their comrade, the group apparently pleading for something.  You are transfixed by this drama, when a spectacled face suddenly eclipses your view.

“What is your name, and where do you hail from?”  The young man in the yellow gown asks you.  A clerk behind him is poised to write in some ledger, and both hang on your words, as you try to regain your composure.

Several minutes of uncomfortable questioning later, the clerks move on, and you notice that the four men are all now sitting on the grass quite some distance away, and a squad of Sun Blades is standing guard over them.  They men are far off, but you can clearly see that they look desperate and forlorn.  Many men in the line just take a look at the men, then try to look elsewhere.

Not until the entire train is interrogated and accounted for, are the gates finally opened, and everyone begins the slow and staggered entry into the Bridgegate.  Your caravan master is standing at the doors, and he is paying out his guards as they enter the fortress.  He puts a small bag of gold in your palm as you walk past, and wishes you good luck.

===The Town===

Dagger Falls is a town of about 2000 people, and it is quite clean and organized for a town this size.  You can see that the place is prosperous at first glance; there are no slums or run-down buildings, the streets are mostly clean, there is smoke coming out of most of the chimneys, which means that people have fuel and are well fed, and there is, to your complete amazement, no throng of beggars awaiting the merchants as they file into the town.  In any other town this size in Faerûn, one would expect to have to shove his way through a crowd of beggars and thieves, but there is not a soul to greet any of you as you enter the prosperous little town, and though you don’t have to guard your purse, there is something offsetting about not having anyone even take a sidelong glance at you.

It is late evening as you enter the town, and lights are just starting to appear in the windows of the buildings as you wander through the clean streets.  At this time of day, there isn’t a business open, and there are few locals on the streets.  You are basically following some of the other caravaners through the streets when the sun vanishes behind the mountains to the west.  At that very moment, the many bells of the cathedral start to chime in song, and doors everywhere open and the townsfolk begin to make their way to towards the music.  The streets are quite busy for several minutes, as what you think must be three-quarters of the town rushes to make some ceremony of Amaunator.  A little while later, as you are still wandering looking for the place that you were told to check into by an old campaigner back in Shadowdale, you can hear hundreds of voices singing in the cathedral several blocks away.  You stop to listen to the music, and turning your head to hear it better, your eyes find the sign that you have been looking for…

===Quick Axes===

The two crossed axes on the sign overhanging this place have given it the name ‘Crossed Axes’ for about as long as the place has been here.  However, the true name of the place is ‘Quick Axes’, and is named after the original owners of the place; a pair of dwarves named Dalak and Balak Quickaxe.  This is a bit of trivia that is well known in Shadowdale, by some circumstance of protracted story telling, and when you walk into the place and say to the grey-bearded dwarf behind the bar “You must be Master Quickaxe”, his old face brightens immediately.  “Balak Quickaxe, at your service!’ his strong voice replies.

This establishment is what dalesfolk in other dales who have been here call ‘the last refuge of regular dales-values in Dagger Falls’.  It is a 3-story inn that has a rowdy tap room, where sexy bar maids serve strong booze.  There are a good many local men here, many of them in their autumn years, enjoying their stiff drinks, and some of them sing in mockery of the service being carried out at the Cathedral presently.  You notice that several of the men that you travelled with have made it here before you, and you realize that this is likely the best place for outsiders to feel at-home in this otherwise straight-laced and rules-heavy town.

After you have secured a room, eaten a warm meal and had a stiff drink, you begin to ask about for work, and it isn’t long before you have heard a dozen men tell you to head up to the Castle.  However, as you head back to the bar for another drink, the proprietor himself comes over to serve you.

“So, you’re headed up to the Castle, I don’t doubt.  There’s no end of work up there, but there’s no end of peril, either.  You best find yourself some friends, and keep’em close.  I know a man up there named Bargle who might be able to set you up.  Bargle “Battlemaster”, people call him.  He calls himself the Captain of the Forever Dunce Chapter or some such.  Anyway, he’s a good man, and he can help a guy like you.  You look for him…”
