[PC Attribution: Maturin Horgath (Stephen Robertson)]
[RAW - UNEDITED AND UNREVIEWED - extracted by automated process, not yet verified for accuracy or completeness]

The Ballad of Maturin and the Lion
Maturin was a Paladin who rode out of the East
An exile from Damara to secure his nation's peace
A soldier of Ilmater and a healer of the poor,
He made his way to Waterdeep, on Faer
n's western shore.
Against slavery and suffering, Ilmater's sons were called,
And with five brave souls from Waterdeep, he rode for Dagger Falls.
But a bounty price was on their heads, and Grimwald's men came next
And the eyes of two Companions never saw the desert's edge,
I will endure, I will endure.
Maturin and the Lion.
The desert burned away their flesh, their horses died of thirst,
They were poisoned by the Zhentarim, they were hunted, they were cursed.
The Grandfather of Lions came upon them in the dunes,
And dread grew on them daily, with the waxing of the moon.
The full moon rose, all Hell broke loose, and in the dying light
From heroes in the desert sun, came lions in the night
The green-eyed god grinned on the scene of murder, strife and gore
As fleeing slaves were hunted, as Zhents were rent and torn.
Maturin woke beneath the sun; his wounds had all been healed,
What he could not remember, the corpse-strewn earth revealed,
And when his steed fled from his touch into the barren wastes
He felt Ilmater renounce him, and knew he'd fallen from His grace.
I will endure; I will endure....
Maturin and the Lion.
Two more friends had joined them, now two more friends were gone,
Three men and a raging dwarf pressed forward, struggled on
'Till the mad and roaming Shildevan, a prophet and a saint,
Came to them on the next full moon, to cleanse the lion's taint.
'You will answer to your duty, you will leave the desert lands,
But when Dagger Falls is free, you must answer these demands.
Return unto the desert, and alone you'll face your foe
In single combat fight the Lion, and thereby save your soul."
I will endure; I will endure...
Maturin and the Lion
Two months in the desert, then another two of war
But our Heroes could not forget what they were fighting for.
The mines were closed, the slaves were freed, and Yarkul put to death.
But something lurked in Dagger Falls, an unseen, silent threat.
Maturin's dreams were clouded then, the God of Lies appeared,
"Go into the desert, now, your foes await you there."
His prayers were still unanswered, and he was plagued anew with doubt,
But Daggerdale would not be free until the darkness was cast out.
The walking dead and demon-knights and all things dark and weird,
Came boiling from the temple crypts, but the Heroes persevered.
Victory at Harvestide was the conclusion of their quest.
But a desert wind rose up that night, and Maturin could not rest.
I will endure; I will endure...
Maturin and the Lion.
They rode into the desert then, four brothers of the sword:
Boregar the Harper and Dorian the Lord,
Gaebril the Crusader and Maturin the Grey
No foe could stand before them; no blade could block their way.
At length they reached the ruined place where they had fought and killed,
Midwinter was upon them and they took shelter from the chill.
Maturin stared into the dunes, hand clenched on his sword,
And somewhere in the desert night, they heard a lion roar...
I will endure; I will endure.
Maturin and the Lion.
The Lion came into the Keep, the winter stormed without
Maturin stood before it and he gave a mighty shout
"I've sworn by all that's holy to wipe out your foul plague.
Forsake your green-eyed Master and answer to my blade."
The Lion roared, his claws lashed out, his fierce maw opened wide
Maturin raged with holy passion, and fought with all his might
And in that clash of silver, muscle, steel, tooth and blood,
Man made war with lion; god made war with god.
Abruptly then, a silence fell, and both bodies fell to ground.
Maturin's friends rushed to his side, and when they pulled him up, they found
A small grey tear beneath one eye, and a smile on his face,
He whispered out a prayer, and I swear they heard him say...
I will endure.  I will endure.
Maturin and the Lion.
He will endure.  He will endure
Maturin and the Lion.
We will endure.  We will endure!!
Maturin and the Lion.
The Ballad of Maturin and the Lion
Stephen Robertson
Stephen Robertson
Microsoft Word 9.0
The Ballad of Maturin and the Lion
Microsoft Word Document