A composition by the noted balladeer Oberon of Netheril on the travails and fortunes of the heroes who thwarted the designs of the Zhentarim wizard Malkor in the spring of 1372.
----

== Chorus ==
:Ah, for just one time, I would ride for Neverwinter
:To smite the hand of Luskan, reaching from the Trackless Sea;
:Tracing one warm line through Frontier both wild and bitter
:As Neverwinter's Heroes did for thee.

== Verses ==

:I have a tale to tell you, unmatched in all Faerûn
:A tale of woe and glory, a tender tragic tune.
:You who would be heroes, who would set aright the wrong
:Listen to my words and hear my song.

:Northward from Roark's Tavern 'tis there 'twas said to lie,
:The road to Neverwinter for which the Harpers died:
:The Road Mage and Bloodshoulder. fairest Laurel Dawn.
:The Zhents’ deceit flows thick and black and on.

:Beljuril and Rufus, the last of that great band,
:Set out swith Mae and Oliver, and Fazil the Grand.
:Sheriff Grimwald's men came after, tracked us through hill and vale,
:‘Till Selûne brought down thunder on their tails.

:Then through the night, at Leilon’s gates, through wizard’s base deceit
:We ran afoul of folly, as orcs rained down like sleet.
:Locked inside a prison, facing oil and smoke and fire
:Atemnon planned a ghastly fun'ral pyre.

:Beshaba's breath was on us, as we came out of that place.
:But likewise had the Sheriff's men felt Maevri's lethal taste
:The city fell behind us, as the Red Shields led the way
:But darkness was to rise against the day.

:Insidious enchantments corrupt the best of men
:And Shar's brood came before us, rising upwards from the plain.
:In defiance and in glory, Selûne's blade in his hand,
:Rufus led the charge, and we scattered them like sand.
thumb|600px|The chase through the Trackless Sea

:At Neverwinter Harbour, hidden safe from sight,
:we found the nest of Malkor and made ready for to fight.
:But not illusions, songs, or arrows, nor prayers, art, or faith
:Could stop that madman's rain of fire and death.

:To sea we put to hound the fiend, who’d cut so many down,
:We swore that Rufus’ killer had seen the last or solid ground.
:Forsaken then by Luskan. his ship was set ablaze,
:An arrow's lonely flight cut short his days.

:The world of men is fleeing; I’ve seen thousands turn to dust.
:But legends live forever, and our songs recall the just.
:Endings are beginnings, and Neverwintcr’s free
:Now sing of heroes, death and hope with me.

[all sing together]

:Ah. for just one time, I would ride for Neverwinter
:To smite the hand of Luskan reaching from the Trackless Sea.
:Tracing one warm line through Frontier both wild and bitter
:As Neverwinter's heroes did for me.

<gallery widths=\"150px\" perrow=\"2\">
image:Oberon Sings of the North.JPG
image:Oberon 2.JPG
</gallery>
