These were the terms offered by Bargle Battlemaster to the unfortunate heroes that would become known as Mule Company on Greengrass, 1479 DR in the Tethyamar Hearth Inn, under which they joined the Free Defense League.

----

“Gentlemen,” the old warrior addresses you like an old friend, rather than the new acquaintance that he is.  “I am General Bargle of the Free Defence League.  I hear that you men are all recently arrived here at the Castle, and looking for work.

“As it turns out, I am looking for some men like you.  I command a pair of teams of adventurers like you, and my organization is looking to expand, and create a third team.  I need a variety of men with a variety of skills, and you lot appear to fit the bill.

“If you’re like any other adventurer up here in the mountains, I am sure you are wondering what’s in it for you, joining the League.  ‘Why even bother?’ I’m sure you’re asking yourselves.  There are plenty of bounties, and no need to organize to pursue them, right?

“Well, that’s only half right.  There are plenty of bounties, but there are more men dying in the mountains trying to claim them than there should be.  Things have gotten right dangerous around here the last couple of years, and though rumour of the lucrative work that is to be found up here for brave young men has travelled through the Dales and other more distant lands the last ten years or more, it is not generally known how many men are dying up here every month.

“Tomorrow a wagon train with some 30 bodies is headed for Town.  We send out the dead once a tenday.  You can do the math, I’m sure.  Now, those bodies represent what the locals call ‘unusual escalation of violence’, but this kind of thing is not uncommon.

“So what am I offering?  I’d like to forge you men into a team, and give you some gear and direction to start you out.  That way, you might have a fighting chance out there.  I’ve been fighting for a long time, and I can tell a promising warrior at the start of his career when I see one.  I see many in you, but I would emphasize the start of your careers.  They will be short indeed if you aren’t organized.

“I want to make something abundantly clear to you men.  I’m not going to sit here and make a hard sell to you.  If you want to go it alone, I will wish you luck and give you any advice you might seek.  Up here, we are all free men.  I wouldn’t have it any other way.  If you want me to close my mouth and move along, I’ll not bother you a moment longer, but if you’re interested in hearing what else I have to say, I’ll buy a round of beer, and we can get to know each other.”

After the heroes agreed to hear him out, Bargle continues;

“I’ll pay for all of your licensing, and put you men up in clean rooms at the League’s tower, where you’ll share a room or two, and have your own safe lockers.  You’ll have all your meals paid for, and I’ll provide supplies for your bounties.  I will loan you men some gear that you can keep once you’ve completed 2 bounties. 

“There are only a couple of concessions that you will have to make as part of the League.  You have to pay back a third of the bounty money to the League.  You will also have to provide a share of magic or other artefacts to the League.  This is how we accumulate surplus gear to outfit our teams without paying the ridiculous costs of buying gear at auction, or having it made.

“And finally, you will have to help out any other League members who get in over their heads.  This can happen from time to time, but know this; you will also benefit from having a dozen other seasoned adventurers to watch your back when you need it most.”
