===Marpenoth 5, 1480 DR.===

You are all a little nervous, as you watch the carpenters frantically hammering boards together in the torch-lit drizzle on this cold Marpenoth night.  Today has been the longest of days for many, these carpenters included.  A pair of carpenters is poised precariously on some sort of makeshift wooden scaffold, and are grabbing boards handed to them by the men below.  The carpenters 15’ up on this scaffold look tired, and more than one slippery board clatters to the cobble-stones of the court yard below.
 
“Is that thing going to be safe?” One of you ask.
 
“It hardly looks safe enough for those guys, and no one is swinging a sword at them” another of you replies.
 
The carpenters are working as fast as they can; there are about two hundred people looking on, as they build the last obstacle of the Bravo Tourney, late on this final day of what has been five days of constant duels.
 
This all started, for many men and women around the dale, with a simple broadsheet that was tacked up on the doors of inns all over the dale.  “White Cloak Recruitment Tourney” it said in big bold letters.  The White Cloaks may have a mixed bag when it comes to their reputation; they are credited with ending the Dark Garden threat, but at the same time had some dealings with a black dragon.  They operate a hostel up at the Castle, and an orphanage in Town, but they are rumoured to have fleeced one of the Gellinsons before they would commit their aid in Tethyamar.  But whether they are known for heroic altruism or mercenary dealings, they are known.  They are quickly becoming the most famous outfit in the dale, now rivalling Bargle’s Dragon and Griffon Companies, and the sheer size and might of the Red Jacks.  So this fame, this infamy, brought 214 competitors to the Close on the first of Marpenoth for what was supposed to be a three-day tourney of 100 competitors.
 
Loedegan Close is a semi-private mansion in the corner of Dagger Falls; it has Town Walls on two sides, a large guest-house on a third, and a long fence on the fourth.  The fence alternates between 10’ sections of stone and 20’ sections of bronze bars.  Those bars have had faces and hands sticking through them for every moment of the tourney for five days now, and on the ramparts above, many soldiers, and their friends, crowd above to look down on the combat.  Despite the early efforts of the White Cloaks Administrator, Alen Reks, this has been the biggest spectacle that the town has seen in anyone’s memory.
 
===Individual Duels - Days 1-3===

For the first three days, single duels were fought between two competitors.  It took all of the care and aid that every free clerk and magistrate of the Yellow Abbey was able to offer to keep the men and women on their feet after these spirited combats.  However, after it became apparent how big this event was going to be, the Yellow Abbey did indeed send all the help it could muster.  Indeed, the Bishop of Dagger Falls himself attended the last two days of the tourney, and is in fact standing in the courtyard opposite you with a large retinue of clerks and magistrates, watching the carpenters as they begin to finish up the 15’ high platform they have been hammering away at.
 
By the end of the second day, people had seen enough one-on-one duels.  They cried out for something different.  A grizzled retired veteran, Sergeant Buck Thistledown, late of the 1st Company Dalehearth Sun Blades, and a veteran of the Battle at Liberty Hill, was in charge of many of the logistics for the tourney.  He and Reks are clearly very close, the bond of brotherhood formed on the field of battle at Liberty Hill forever cementing these two in the fraternity of arms.  Buck seemed to have been given as much liberty as needed by the Administrator to sculpt the tourney.  He decided to start putting obstacles up for the combatants, towards mid-day on the second of Marpenoth.  Since then, every spare carpenter in the town has been building benches, boxes, bulk heads, and imaginative obstacles of every variety.
 
The popularity of the raised-rings was evident right away; having a pair of fighters square off on a stage made the combat more visible to the crowds, and added a level of complexity to the fighting that made it more entertaining.   
 
By the end of the third of Marpenoth, there were only 40 tired combatants left.  The last duel ended just before midnight, and the crowds, though weary and wet from constant drizzle and mist, stuck it out until the end.  Before the crowds and the competitors departed for the night to whatever lodgings they had found, Sgt. Buck called out “Tomorrow we will begin the Team Challenges!”  This caught many by surprise, Reks included, who was seen to wear a brief grimace of unpleasant surprise on his face.  However, when the cheers and the talking began, it was clear that this was going to be popular and entertaining.
 
===Team Challenges - Days 4 and 5===

The carpenters kept everyone within earshot of the Close awake, as they sawed and hammered all night.  On the misty morning of the fourth, the usual early-morning crowd of children that had been pressed against the fence of the Close found a spectacle of wooden platforms, tunnels, and other obstacles on a completely new scale.  Also, there were 3 tiers of benches built along the north and south walls of the courtyard, and by 7 bells, a team of clerks and Sun Blades was at the gates, admitting anyone who wanted to pay 1 gold for a seat.  The seats were full by 8 bells, when the 40 competitors were formed up into teams.
 
As the sun was just barely above the crowded walls overhead, Sgt. Buck announced “Today we begin the Team Challenges!  The core of any fighting unit is teamwork you will live or die by the men and women at your side, and today, you will win or loose by the same!”
 
Very quickly, 8 teams of 5 competitors were formed up, and a double-elimination round was held.  The teams were forced through a variety of obstacles and objectives, combined with fighting off their opponents, to stay in the tournament.  By the end of the day, 4 teams were eliminated, leaving only 20 competitors left.  Just before vespers, there was a distraction at the gates of the Close.  In the middle of one of the last matches of the day, a wave of people falling to one knee put a sudden halt to the match; the two teams, the organizers and the spectators alike looked at the gates, and saw a host of men cantering through the gates on great warhorses.  At the van was Lord Whitegate himself, with his brother, the Zenith Lord, and many knights besides.  They had ridden hard all the way from the Castle to see the tournament, and despite being Lord of the Castle, Grand Master of the Order of the Lambent Shield, and many other things besides, he saluted the sergeant in charge and Administrator Reks, and nodded towards the tentative combatants.
 
“Fight you bastards!” came the barking voice of Sgt. Buck, and the contest continued.
 
===Finals - Day 5===

The morning of the fifth of Marpenoth, the final day of what had become known as the Bravo Tourney dawned cold and bleak; the autumn sky was a roiling, angry inky smear, and it issued a fine drizzle the entire day.  Despite this, the stands were again filled at the cost of 1 gold per spectator, and the walls and fence were likewise crammed.  The teams were split up at 8 bells into 4 new teams of 5 competitors, and the sergeant opened the final day by inviting the Zenith Lord to say a prayer over the event.  It is not often that many of the spectators there gathered heard the Zenith Lord; Argent Whitegate is usually kept busy up at the Castle, and even for the Bishop of Dagger Falls and the Dean of the Yellow Abbey, the prayer seemed to hold a certain precious weight that, for one moment in the day, kept the din and chaos to one clear, loud voice offering up a benediction.
 
Then the day began.
 
“Look at the teams assembled!” shouted Buck.  “One of these teams shall become White Cloak Bravo Team.  They will win or loose together as they stand now!” and the four teams reacted with a mixture of optimistic cheers and speculative glances at their new team mates.
 
The remainder of the tourney was organized into rounds of single-elimination, with each contest being a best 2 out of 3.  The winner advanced to the next round, the looser marched off with thanks and praise to the seats flanking the courtyard.  The first round took all day; there were 2 matches that both went the full three rounds.  By supper time, however, there were only two teams remaining.  Everyone retired while the carpenters set about clearing the yard and building the last challenge.  By the time the sun set, the stands were again packed, and two teams and hundreds of spectators watched as the carpenters hammered away in the light of a hundred burning torches, blazing in defiance of the drizzle.
 
===Final Match!!!===
 
As the last planks are hammered into place, the two teams are assembled and deployed to their starting zones.  You are on the red team; you and your team mates all have crisp red sashes tied to your waists, arms or heads, while the team on the opposite side of the large structure in front of you wears blue.
 
The team opposite are a capable lot, to be sure.  Like you, they have fought for five days to be standing in the ring here tonight.  Here is the composition of this team;
 
* Aldous Winterpeake – A young man from Sembia who smacks of privilege and good tutors; he is a natural leader and a daunting foe; you have seen him rebuke an assault with the force of his character, and his constant orders and shouts inspire his troops to fight harder and faster.
 
* Sammus Weaver – A local lad from Charity Hills Farm, fresh out of the Sun Blades, 18 years old.  He is a big farm boy with a big Halberd.  His presence on the field of battle is such that he is difficult to ignore.

* Ragnoth the Mad – A wandering northerner with a big axe and a furious temper. His blows have challenged the best healers in the clergy to keep his opponents in one piece after he is done.
 
* Ealemere Danlorian – A green elf from Deep Cormanthor, and a dervish with his twin blades.  He is fast and lethal.

*Kite Ironjaw – A dwarven traveler who actually came up from Tethyamar to take part in the tourney.  He is a defender who will not easily let those in his care fall.
 
As everyone positions into place, the old sergeant climbs the obstacle in the middle of the courtyard.  He turns around slowly, smiling as he takes in the torch-lit faces of hundreds of spectators, and the two anxious teams on either side of him.  The platform he stands on is a rough 15’ x 15’ x 15’ wooden platform, with lots of slats and beams to climb up on.   
 
The bulk of the courtyard has been cleared to make one large arena, about 110’ on each side.  The platform in the middle is the only obstacle on this final course.  At the middle of the northern and southern edges of the course is a pair of flags; on the north, a red flag, on the south, a blue, both on a 6’ pole.  On the east and west edges, a 15’x10’ area is marked off as the starting area for each team.
 
On top of the platform, in the middle, is a big metal cylinder which has been fixed in place, in which the flag poles will easily fit.

==Rules for the Final Match==

right|450px|thumb|1 square = 5'
 
# Best 2 out of 3 rounds wins.
#A round is won when one team can keep their flag in the hole in the middle for a 3-count (there is a big gong that will strike as soon as the flag is planted, and then once a round on that initiative count for the next two rounds; on the third strike, the match is over.) The flag can be left unattended for the 3 count.  
#An unattended flag can be grabbed or planted as a minor action
#To wrestle a flag out of the hole or away from someone carrying it, an opposed check of Dex or Str v Dex or Str is used; each character picks which skill it will use in the contest; this is a standard action.
#Climb DC for the15’ scaffold is 12.
#The area under the scaffold is inaccessible.
#Once a player steps out of their starting zone, if they are subsequently put out of bounds, they are removed from the round.
#No attacking prone players unless they are attacking. Grabs may be used against prone players at any time.  
#As a minor action, a player adjacent to a planted flag (in either the starting holes or the objective) can hold it in place, to force a contest to take it (see above).
#The flags must be carried in an empty hand; they may not be stored on the body, carried in teeth, shield hands, etc
#The flags or poles may not be damaged.
#Any round in which you take the run manoeuvre and change your direction, make an acrobatics check DC 12 or slide one square and fall prone (wet cobble stones).
 
 
===Opening Narrative for Abandon Hope Adventure===
 
It is a full hour past vespers when the final match is begun. The sky is black and soggy, issuing a fine drizzle that makes the torches dance just a little. There are hundreds of people crammed into every possible space to watch the match; there are even some of the orphans that have been whispered about throughout the tournament, sneaking looks from windows and balconies; Reks periodically hisses at them, causing them to dart away but just as quickly reappear.   
 
The make-shift stands are packed with hundreds of spectators. It is cold, wet and crowded, and even though they paid a full gold coin to be here, there are no complaints. There is only the anticipation of the final match between the 10 best competitors that this tournament has brought to the surface.
 
Lord Whitegate is brought to the small judge’s stand at the edge of the cordoned-off arena, standing on the small wooden stage. He raises his hands and all goes quiet, except the roaring and hissing report from a hundred torches. He says that he has been given the honour of announcing the rules for the final match, which he does in a clear and powerful voice. Finally, he claps his hands together. “No one has come here to listen to me, so let’s get on with it! Begin!” With this, a gong is struck and the two teams bolt into action, and the crowd roars!

category:Abandon Hope
category:Daggerdale Narratives
