With a number of the  injured, more eyes were needed on the walls and she had been one of the first to volunteer. The Chauntean devout were celebrating but it was more muted than normal out of respect for those that were still coping with the loss of loved ones, as well as the ones that were still recovering from the atrocities they experienced and witnessed ... if that was even possible.

The sun was beginning to set and rather than watching the tree line to the north, she had been watching him. He had been out there, seated upon an old tree stump, for hours. Writing in a journal of some sort, only to take a few moments from time to time to look out over the fields and into the forest to the north, before returning to his writing once again. She wondered what he was writing. A report to those he answered to? A retelling of what he had seen; what they had seen?

During the time that she had been watching him, on two separate occasions a maid from the farm had approached him, both flushed with excitement and nervous over mustering up the courage to speak to one of the heroic strangers that saved their town. They were only a year or two younger than she was and she knew exactly what was going through their minds when they had approached. She was surprised each time when their advances had been spurned by him, and even more surprised when each girl had returned to the farm, blushing and smiling. Somehow, he had managed to make them smile despite turning them down. Her blue eyes narrowed as she watched him and chewed upon her impression of him. He was older than her and seemingly well-read. He had an easy smile, too easy in her opinion and although only a young woman, she knew a wolf when she saw one and Nathan Gale was most certainly a wolf.

While enlisted, she had encountered men that fancied themselves “wolves” but she understood now that the ones that need to howl continuously and try to prove to the women around them what they are ... well ... they’re no wolves. It’s the quiet, confident ones you need to keep an eye on. He had always been cordial to her, even when he and Sergeant Paros had been arguing. Even when she had backed her sergeant in the decisions he had been making, Nathan had not been cross with her. Not once during the time since they met had she ever gotten the impression from him that he saw her as anything other than a companion; yet for some reason, when their eyes had met from time to time, she felt a knot forming in her abdomen and she found herself turning to look at him when he laughed at something no one else was laughing at or smiling simply to reassure those around him that everything would be fine.

The difference between him and men that thought they were like him was clearly identified when one simply compared Nathan with Bastian. Both handsome in their own way. Both unique and competent in what they did, but where Bastian needed to shout out to everyone from a rooftop, Nathan did not. At nineteen years of age, there had only been two men she had known intimately, and they were as much men as she was a woman. On both occasions there had been ale involved, and emotions were still high from a recent, and victorious battle. Both had been fumbling, rushed and awkward moments and although not unpleasant, she was in no rush to experience it again and although she was sure Bastian would be more than willing to show her what he could do, she was also quite sure it would be like the previous two encounters. So once again, she found herself thinking about Nathan and thinking about him made her angry ... angry at herself ... angry at him.

She was standing on the wall; the evening winds whipping at her hair and her well-worn cloak when she was relieved by another Bright Spear and rather than heading to the Inn and the celebration there she left through the gate and approached the man she was angry with. He was no longer writing. The book he had been writing in was on the ground beside him where he sat and atop it laid three simple looking scroll cases. He looked to her as she approached and he gave her one of the easy smiles that no doubt; he had given to the two previous girls that had come upon him and offered themselves. She felt her anger bubbling at the thought that he might think she was just another young maid looking for company and comfort.

She was speaking before she realized it, “I wanted to take the opportunity to tell you that I think the way you spoke to Sergeant Paros was disrespectful and diminished us in the eyes of the citizens of Dwimmerholme Farm.” She felt her anger subside a little as he saw his smile disappear, feeling better about having had a chance to stifle the man’s ego, some. He looked away from her, his attention to the pumpkin heads that were beginning to glow in the twilight as the sun set. He responded, his voice low, quiet and without any of the fire that she had seen when he had been arguing with the sergeant.

“Well ... you’re entitled to think that.” The subsiding of her anger had stopped and his calm, response struck her as patronizing.

“He is the Sergeant and it was his decision to make.”

“He was the Sergeant and it was a made up title bestowed upon him by another with an equally made up title.” , Imogen did not fail to notice the emphasis he put on the word 'was' and she made an indignant sound that was part snort and part laughter.

“He still IS the sergeant.”  This elicited another calm, even-toned response from the seated man.

“No ... he is not. Upon completion of the mission, his provisional rank ends, leaving Captain Reks the decision to assign a new Sergeant for the next mission should this one be deemed a success. Paros might be made Sergeant for the next mission, but that decision is left up to our good Captain. Who knows? Maybe there will be some other mad contest that which we will have to prove ourselves worthy to go on the next mission? Mayhap we will get to leap through flaming hoops to the delight of those in the stands at Loedegan’s Close?”

“You are a pompous fool, Nathan. Sergeant Paros made decisions as best he could and in the end, lives were saved and he even tended to your wounds, I might add.” Nathan continued to look out over the fields and the pumpkins as they began to shine brighter and brighter, which only served to cause Imogen’s tone to grow more and more argumentative, all while his stayed the same.

“Aye ... the very best he could. His very best decision involved avoiding a day’s worth of inconvenience as we escorted six innocents back to this farm in exchange for saving only three innocents and sentencing the other three to an eternity of torment, the likes of which make what we witnessed over the last few days look similar to a warm embrace.” His tone and his words only seemed to make her grow more angry with each passing moment.

“You cannot know that Nathan, and you cannot blame Sergeant Paros for choosing the course of action that takes the least amount of risk.”

“I can know that. I saw it, Sergeant Mystral/Imogen Mystral. I saw the Dale girl. I saw her ... in Avernus. I saw her and a multitude of other tortured souls. She will be suffering for an eternity as will her brother because our Sergeant, Shea and yourself decided the least amount of risk was the best course of action. Rather than have a difficult return trip to the Farm and deal with the fear of the unknown, the three of you supported sentencing an innocent man and two innocent children to an eternity of torment.” She took a step back as if he had slapped her across the face. She shook her head once ... and then once more, pushing aside the doubt and fear she felt and substituting it with white, hot anger.

“ ... and even when the Sergeant agreed with YOUR course of action, you did an about-face and fought him on THAT! You were scared Nathan, and you were acting childishly!”

Nathan gathered his journal and three scroll cases and stood from where he sat. Looming over her for a moment, she was quite sure she was stronger than he was and could fight him off if needed but there was something else in his eyes other than violence. It was sadness, regret and something else...something ruthless.

“I said and did precisely what I needed to in order to get our good Sergeant to save nineteen souls from eternal torment, Sergeant Mystral. Eternity is a long time ... you would do well to think upon that. These matters involve a great deal more than simply life and death.”

He slipped from the tree stump and gathered his things smoothly and quietly before standing and turning away from her.  The patient and charming smile she had become used to receiving from him was not given this time, nor a farewell as he headed back inside the walls. He would not be giving her the smile he had given the two hopeful maids and she would not be returning back to the Farm with blushing cheeks and a smile on her lips. Instead, she turned her back to the wall and looked out over the greying fields and the dark forest edge so that no one would see the tears running down her cheeks.
