Ches 17, 1483 DR 
You have been selected to participate in the Thistle Ridge Reclamation Competition. You and other holders of Charters Militant will have a tenday to prove that you are the organization best suited to be chartered to Reclaim Thistle Ridge Farm, potentially becoming the lords and owners of that once-shining jewel in the eastern edge of Daggerdale. 
The Competition will begin on 19 Ches, 1483 DR, at a meeting of all participants and the Adjudicating Committee in the Chauntean Chambre at Governors' Hall, sharply at seven bells. Please present with your entire company at Full Readiness at that time. 
Master Adjudicant Arthur Whitmore (Ambassador to The Governors' Assembly from Charity) will deliver the final details to the competition and signal its start. In order to prepare each Company for the Competition, the Adjudicating Committee has provided the following to each: 
1. A copy of the Yellow Abbeye Booke of Surveys and Measures, 1440 DR Edition for Thistle Ridge Farm 
2. The Yellow Abbey Book of Surveys and Measures - 1440 DR Map of Thistle Ridge Farm 
3. The 1478 DR Map of Thistle Ridge Farm and Surroundings 
4. 100 gold pieces as stake for the Mercantile Measure of the Competition 
The Competition will be divided into three Measures as follows: 
The Military Prowess Measure 
Each Company will be tested for its Military Prowess by tests of combat, leadership and other challenges throughout the Competition. There will be five specific challenges for each Company throughout the Competition, and each will be announced at seven bells in the Chauntean Chambre at Governors'' hall on 20, 22, 24, 26 and 28 Ches. Each Company will receive a score of 1, 2, or 3 depending on their performance for each challenge, with a possible total score of 15 points for this Measure. 
The Mercantile Measure 
Each Company will be given 100 gold pieces at the outset of the Competition, which it must use to conduct trade, produce services, or any other business transactions permitted to grow this sum and benefit the Dale. This Measure will be scored according to the following criteria: 
Total Amount of Value created for the Company—1 to 5 points awarded based strictly on a quantitative measure of Value 
Total Amount of Value created for the Dale—1 to 5 points awarded based strictly on a quantitative measure of Value 
Common Value to the Dale—1 to 5 points awarded based on qualitative value delivered to the Dale 

A score of 15 is possible for this Measure. 
The Intelligence Measure 
Each Company will be required to produce an Intelligence Report by the 28th of Ches, to be submitted in writing to the Master Adjudicant at Governors' Hall by five bells of the evening. The Intelligence Measure will be scored by the Adjudicating Committee in private, and each will be assigned a score of 3, 6, 9, 12 or 15 points based on the relative quality of each Report. 
Adjudicating Committee Endorsement & Fina Scoring 
The final component of the Competition scoring will be based on the personal opinion of each Adjudicating Committee Member. Each Member will, at the Competition Closing Ceremony, make or withhold public endorsement for each Company. Each Member may Endorse as many or as few Companies as he or she sees fit. Each Endorsement will come with a value of 1 point, with a possible total of 5 points for all Endorsements. 
Each Company will then have the following  
Military Prowess Measure—5 to 15 points 
Mercantile Prowess Measure—5 to 15 points 
Intelligence Measure—3 to 15 points 
Endorsement—0 to 5 points 
Total Score of 8 to 50 possible points 
The winner of the competition will be the Company with the most points and will be awarded the Temporary Settlement Charter at the Competition Closing Ceremony. 
Competition Closing Ceremony & Reclamation Commencement 
To be held at seven bells of the morning in the Chauntean Chabre of Governors' Hall, the Closing Ceremony will be chaired by Master Adjudicant Whitmore. The winning Company will be announced, and the other Companies thanked and dismissed.  
The Thistle Ridge Reclamation Commencement will be held immediately after the Ceremony, beginning with the signing and notarizing of the Temporary Settlement Charter and introductions to all involved parties.  
A Message from the Adjudicating Committee 
We would like to wish you the best of luck in the coming days. We have arranged a series of Measures to ensure that we find the most competent Company for this important endeavour, and we hope you will show us your very best Qualities. We expect you to comport yourselves with Bravery and Honour and that you always keep the Common Goode of the Dale foremost in your minds while you are tested. 
The winner of the Temporary Settlement Charter will be instrumental in the survival and prosperity of Daggerdale in the very near future, and how you acquit yourselves over the coming days will be as important as plain victories in the Measures. We must assume that our enemies will watch this Competition closely, and those participating will be looking to Endorse those who conduct themselves in such a manner as to dissuade those foes from future mischief. 
Excerpt from the Yellow Abbey Booke of Surveys and Measures, 1440 DR Edition—Thistle Ridge Farm
