Ches 21 - Business, etc
by Gus Miranda (as Jasper)
25 Mar 2024

---

Just an update to what we are doing the off-day, before we compete in The River.

Jasper (& Mortimer):

In the morning Jasper's going to read the Ferguson documents along with Lucan, and we will have our breakfast meeting with Vessuvian.  I am also going to keep an eye on Lucan for any other effects of the spell he was affected by.

Afterwards, Jasper will go with Mari to the Standing Stone League to offer condolences for Bree's death and they opened the door regarding a possible mercantile alliance - the details of which we defer to Lucan and Jeska to decide upon.

Mortimer will be spend the day scouting out The River area obtaining for us the necessary intel about the field of competition.  In addition, I will ask him to be on the lookout for a Raven with reddish feathers - as he goes about his work.

In the afternoon, I am going to try to investigate further the ritual that affected Lucan.  I can use Arcana and Occultism skills, as well as the spell Pocket Library if I'm not making progress.  I want to figure out the specific ritual, and if possible any countermeasures that we might be able to use.

*(Gus knows - or thinks he knows - that this is the 4th level spell "Nightmare", and that there is fuck-all we can do about it, other than boost Lucan's Will defense, but Jasper should come to that knowledge/conclusion himself somehow other than by flipping through the PHB.)*

Furthermore (and as part of this research) I want to try to figure out who Zallia's Patron is.  If we can figure out from where she draws her power, we might be able to better prepare for further attacks.

Is there anything we want to do in regards to this night-time assault by the Redjacks?  On the one hand, I figured this is just retaliation for Lucan's public displays; but on the other hand, this is powerful magic being thrown at us inside our own HQ - showing us they can hit us anytime they want.


Jasper says: "Well, I mean... It's like that time that Cameron Feldstone made my sister Myrtle cry at the Harvestide Dance, so my brothers Maynard and Rudyard and my cousins Roth and Nemo waited a few days so as to catch Cameron unawares, but then one night they went and broke into the Feldstone house and grabbed Cameron right from bed, stripped him and dragged him two miles all the way down to the Ashaba and threw him naked as a babe into the river!  There were plenty of thrashings to go 'round by Dad and Uncle Gideon that day... err... well, you know... All I'm saying is that they're showing us they can get to us inside here whenever they want."


Redjacks:

1. Craster (Captain): Fighter or Rogue that pairs up with Livinia to flank and kill
2. Livinia: Monk who will move quick and look to knock us prone
3. Zallia: Witch with unknown patron
4. Grimaldus: Dragonborn Fire Kineticist.
5. Buddy: Dwarven battlerager drug addict

These guys almost all seem to be high damage output with not a lot of healing or support options other than Zallia.  These guys do seem to be all about offense, but they're not overly ranged so we want to keep our distance and definitely not engage in melee.  But if Zallia is casting 4th level ritual spells just to fuck with Lucan's sleep, I think there might be plenty to be worried about what she can get up to.

---

Todd Burry (as Mari) replies, 25 Mar 2024:

Mari says, "If the spell's effects persist a second day, I have a scroll of restoration tucked away."

"Those big hitters will be able to brute force those blocks better than the lot of us. Maybe we should let them tire themselves out and then pick them off when they're spent."

---
Source: Email thread "Ches 21 - Business, etc", Gus Miranda and Todd Burry, 25 Mar 2024
