This is a smaller building found at the base of the middle wall in the Outer Bailey.  The building was originally placed as a strategic revile, breaking up the otherwise unobstructed course of the courtyard between the north and south gates.

The building has one small wooden door set into a deep stone archway.  On either side of the entrance is hung a rich purple standard with the heraldry of Candle Keep.  The standards are further embellished by each having a pair of brass lamps on either side of the banner which cast a continuous and even glow on the face of the building.

Inside, visitors arrive in a very small, very cozy antechambre, about 16’ x 16’.  The room has wood-panelled walls and a thick, rich carpet on the floor.  Behind a large wooden desk sits a lone clerk, who rises to greet any visitor with a warm hand shake and a smile.

The antechamber has a few very comfortable leather chairs for visitors, and a large table which dominates the entire length of one wall, upon which are many instruments for inspecting artefacts and magic items, such as looking glasses, alchemical concoctions, and so on.  It is on this table that the clerk will invite the visitor to place any item he would like to have inspected and logged.

==Candlekeep Registry Bounty==

It is here that one comes to claim his Candlekeep Registry Bounty.  Artifacts and magic items are brought here, and the clerk takes his time inspecting them thoroughly, often performing small tests, and looking at reference tomes, before proudly announcing the name, properties, and any pedigree of the item, if known.  The clerk will then fill out a ticket to be brought to the Bounty Registrar for payment, which may be anywhere from 5-25 gold, depending on the value of the item.

It is well known that if the owner of the item finds that it is something he has no use for, that he may offer to sell it to the Emissary, but the clerks never solicit a sale.  They will make offers on just about anything, though.  

The Emissary holds a biannual auction in which they sell off most of the items they have purchased.  The dates for the auctions are Midsummer and the Feast of the Moon.

==Staff==

There are about 12 monks that accompany Brother Darred here at the Castle, but only two of them work at the desk, taking care of the bounty.  These are Brother Neddle, and Brother Landrick.  They each take turns working on alternate days.

Neddle is an elderly man who is very nearly blind, and has to inspect everything from about 6 inches away.  He is the friendlier of the two monks, though, and is rumoured to give a better price for unwanted items.

Landrick is a young man of some 25 years, who is polite but aloof.  He is agonizingly exacting in his inspections of artefacts and magic items, and tends to give less colourful stories about the items he appraises than his colleague.
