== Description ==

Corran stands a little over six feet tall and has the build required to be able to move about well while wearing a suit of plate armour.  He has blue eyes, black hair and a well-maintained appearance regarding himself as well as his gear.

Much of what he currently wears and wields seem ancient.  Antiquated and highly decorated plate armour with a Torm motif matches the heavy shield as well as broadsword that he uses.

== Birth and Youth ==

Corran was born in Dagger Falls whose parents were devout worshippers of Amaunator. Corran's father was a woodcarver in service to the church whose task it was to provide wooden \"sunburst\" symbols for the church to purchase and then dispense to it's soldiers as well as worshippers of Amaunator throughout Dagger Falls. Where Corran's father could have put his skill to carving true works of art, he insisted on devoting his skill to the church, living a modest life and supporting his faith in whatever manner he could.

Much of Corran's time was spent with his doting mother who tended to him constantly. Corran was a likable, gregarious child, popular with the other children in Dagger Ford and when he wasn't being fussed over by his mother, he was playing \"Sun Blades\" with his friends, slaying worshippers of Shar and bringing the evil doers to justice. Although relatively poor, Corran's family was respected within the church and Corran's inclusion in it was an inevitability.

== Joining the Sun Blades ==

Corran, however, had other ideas. As he grew older he started to notice girls and girls began to notice him. He also noticed that those that joined the church in an \"official\" manner led rather spartan as well as disciplined lives. Life as a Sun Blade, although disciplined and difficult was not nearly as stark as the lifestyle of those in the Order of the Lambent Shield.

When Corran started his eighteenth year he made it known he was interested in joining the Sun Blades. Something that embarrassed his parents but his father; so focused on his duties involving the church and his mother; busy all the time either doting on Corran or his father had turned a blind eye to their somewhat lazy and womanizing son.

Corran took to being a Sun Blade immediately. He was strong and showed aptitude with the blade as well leading men. He had been in the Sun Blades for half a year and with as much success as he had already shown, there was already talk of promoting him. Where some young men might buckle under the expectations and pressure, Corran shouldered it confidently and never showed any signs of weakening under the additional pressure that his success brought.

== The Priestess ==

It was the Summer Solstice Festival that was Corran's downfall. Although the expectations had been made quite clear about what was not acceptable behaviour for a Sun Blade during the festival, much of it fell on deaf ears. The men had been training hard for six months, and few of the new enlisted men had even been on patrols and seen battle. Corran was one of them and although still looked upon with doubt by the veterans, when Corran returned to Dagger Ford with his friends in their new uniforms, their armour polished to a level that was nearly blinding in the light of the day, the list of \"acceptable behaviour' was forgotten the moment the first young girl giggled and waved.

The Solstice Festival had been a glorious tenday and only served to remind Corran how great life could be and how \"golden\" he could be. \"Golden\" was a term that his friends had given him for much of the time, that's how his life seemed to appear. Golden, blessed and downright divine. Corran had met a girl at the festival. Her name was Myriah and her hair was as dark as the night sky with a smile that reminded him of a sunrise. There was talk of her being one of the more favoured young priestesses amongst the newest group and the two took to one another immediately. Corran wasn't one to invest much emotion when it came to his interactions with women, let alone girls but Myriah proved to be the exception to his opinion on that. She was smart as well as aggressive. She challenged his thoughts and beliefs and she made the nicest of sounds when he kissed her just behind her ear. Upon leaving Dagger Falls after the festival, Corran threw himself into his duties as a soldier of the Sun Blades, thoughts of Myriah buoying his spirit where other recruits found theirs flagging and he did what he could to motivate the men of his company. He wrote to Myriah everyday and it had only been a tenday when he received his first letter from Myriah. It had included a charcoal sketch of her done by one of her friends and her letter said that it was, \"...to remind you of what you're fighting for and coming home to...\"  More correspondence was shared between the two and then after a month and a half, the letters from Myriah stopped.

What they had shared during the Solstice Festival, coupled with what they had shared back and forth in their letters had him feeling confident. He was sure that her lack of correspondence was simply because of an increase in her duties with the Church.

== Bittersweet Tidings ==

Three month's after the festival, Corran was informed of a need to speak with THE Captain. His friends were busy congratulating him because all of them were sure that this would be where Corran was promoted to Corporal. The only person to ever be promoted to Corporal even before their mandatory enlisted time had concluded.

Corran showed up at the Captain's quarters and was let in. He found himself in a room with the Captain, his company's chaplain as well as all of the Sergeants and Corporals of the company Corran was part of. He had heard of how promotions were handled and this certainly seemed an unusual gathering for the promotion of a new recruit to Corporal, even if he was an unusual case but he had faith in his own abilities and faith in the people in the room he now stood in. If they believe he is worth such a ceremony then perhaps he truly is as special as he has been told?

Corran left the Captain's quarters pale-faced and his eyes red-rimmed with barely restrained tears.  Myriah was pregnant and she had named him the father. Myriah's family was the Mystrals. Mystral's farm was east of Dagger Ford and one of, if not the wealthiest farm in all of Daggerdale. The impregnating of the Mystrals' most prominent daughter had the family furious, and they had demanded that Corran be removed from the Sun Blades and flogged in the middle of Dagger Falls for all to see what happens when an overconfident and foolish person disrespects the church - and the community that supports the church, especially a devout and respected family such as the Mystrals. The Sun Blades take their reputation seriously and incidents such as this had occurred in the past.

== Disgrace ==

A time of punishment was always enough to convince the offending individual to follow the rules that had been set.  The Mystrals were a powerful and wealthy family with many ties to the church however. It had been decided that Corran was to be made an example of. He would be removed from the Sun Blades and forced to serve at Castle Radiance as a labourer of the Church. Upon the birth of his child, he would be released from the Church and allowed to return to Dagger Ford begin his life with Myriah and his newborn child.

Corran never even had a chance to speak to his friends back at the barracks. His sword was taken from him immediately, he was put on a horse with four Sun Blades as an escort and immediately took the journey to Castle Radiance. Corran simply wanted to die from the shame. The journey to Castle Radiance has been a long one however and although he was still disheartened by his removal from the Sun Blades, his spirits were lifted by the thoughts of being able to see Myriah in another six months and raise their child together. They started out under less than acceptable circumstances but he was sure he could come up with some way to provide for Myriah and his child. Myriah's family was wealthy as well. They couldn't stay mad forever. Coin might not be as much of a concern as he thought.

== Penance ==

The next six months were difficult.  Corran was quartered with criminals at Castle Radiance and put on work details that no one would want.  He was stoic about it, simply focusing on the task at hand, knowing that each moment that passed brought him closer to returning to Myriah.  He kept the illustration of her in pristine condition, protected in a scroll case that had been given to him by the chaplain of his company.  He would look at the picture of her for hours until he grew too tired to stay awake, carefully returning the illustration to it's protective case before falling asleep so he could awake to whatever back-breaking or demeaning task was planned for him that day.

Corran became a cautionary tale for the men of the Sun Blades regarding the rules around the Summer Solstice Festival. Still, even the criminals he was forced into labour with began to like him and respect him as much as his old friends from the Sun Blades had. They were all excited for him when word of his daughter being born reached him at Castle Radiance. He was put on a merchant's wagon heading east the next day out of the mountains with the gold he had earned during his short time as a Sun Blade. He had come to terms with his expulsion from the Sun Blades and Myriah and his new daughter were his reason to continue and reason to keep hoping for something better.

== Mystral Machinations ==

His reunion with Myriah did not go as expected. The Mystral family had guards set at the gate of their farm and wouldn't allow him access. Worse still, he was told that Myriah and their grandchild had been sent away with a caravan the day after the birth. It had taken a four to get from Castle Radiance to Dagger Falls and another full day to walk from Dagger Falls to Mystral's Farm. She had already been gone for five days. He had worked constantly for half a year, thinking only of returning to Dagger Falls to start a life with Myriah and his daughter and he had been denied that much as he had been denied the Sun Blades. This hurt far more.

Corran raged and attacked the guards with his bare hands and when he awoke he was a prisoner in a dungeon in Dagger Falls. His parents, no longer respected in the community or by the church for the actions of their son could not convince anyone to free him. They used up all of their remaining coin to pay the fine he had accrued and he was free, living with his parents. The Mystrals, seemingly, were not content with punishing just Corran and had gone so far as to convince the Church that dealing with the Altair family was a bad idea. In fact, the Mystrals had a vested interest in this, as they had someone at the farm that was also a wood carver and capable of crafting the sun bursts that had been in favour with the community for so long.

== The Altair Allowance ==

Corran's parents had been living off of the kindness of their few remaining friends for the last six months, and both were ill from malnourishment. Corran desperately wanted to track down Myriah and his daughter but his mother and father needed him more. Corran had nothing else but to throw himself on the mercy of the Church. He talked as well as he could. He used every bit of charm that he could muster and when that didn't work; he begged. In the course of nine months, he had become nearly the opposite of what he had once been.

The Church's history with Corran's parents, as well as the imploring of their pitiful son, finally moved the Church to strike a deal. He would be paid five gold a tenday - the same wage he was paid when in the Sun Blades. He would be stationed far to the west, where he would see to the needs of the soldiers and clergy at the frontier settlement that lay beyond Castle Radiance. In return, those five gold coins would be given to his parents every tenday. Corran's father simply wouldn't look him in the eyes and his mother would be wracked with sobs everytime she looked up her son. Corran was more than glad to accept the offer and rid himself of Dagger Falls and the pain and shame he left there.

== Frontier Duty ==

Corran was escorted far to the west, to Fort Last Sun. He spent a year there doing menial work and serving the soldiers and clery there before men of his old company became stationed there. He was just beginning to grow accustomed the the hollow feeling inside of him but the pity he saw in the eyes of the men he used to call friends drove him mad with anger. He requested to be stationed elsewhere and he was told he could be of use at Fort Sansum at the edge of the Netherese Plaguelands. No one wanted to be there, except those few souls as desperate, mad or hopeless as him.

== The Noble Apostate ==

The name and sad fate of Corran Altair faded from memory until seven years later, a warrior walked past the gates of Fort Last Sun. His skin was browned by the sun and he had a well-groomed appearance, right down to each polished scale of his armour. A symbol of Torm was emblazoned on his shield and he let those in charge know that he was Corran Altair, paladin of Torm and that he was there to help.

Corran rarely speaks of his time at the northern outpost but he certainly came back a different man. At Fort Last Sun, the well-groomed man he was once known to be had gradually been replaced by a foul-smelling, grime-covered roustabout, always available to do whatever menial labour was assigned to him. He returned with an antiquated broadsword, a heavy shield with the symbol of Torm emblazoned upon it and ceremonial plate armour that had definitely seen better days but just as clearly had survived a great many battles. His unkempt and uncleanly appearance had been replaced with the well-groomed appearance he was once known for, but his characteristic fun-loving and gregarious manner had been replaced with a staunch devotion to looking after any and all in need of protection and assistance.

Since returning to Fort Last Sun he had concluded his arrangement with the Church of Amaunator regarding them paying his aged mother and father for the servitude. He now takes up whatever bounties he can find as well as escorting on patrols in order to earn coin, tithing a quarter to the Church of Torm, half to his parents in Dagger Falls and using the remainder to keep his gear in as best shape as possible.

Beyond the gear he normally has upon him, Corran always carries upon him what seems to be an enchanted scrollcase which is rarely far from his immediate possession.

Category:Steve
Altair, Corran
Altair, Corran
Altair, Corran
Altair, Corran
