A note you found in your grandmother’s things…

Dearest Sister:

I hope you will destroy this letter after you read it. Part of the agreement with the new Alavandors is that my family and the other would take what we were given and vanish forever. The old patriarch made good on his end of the deal; he did indeed make our journey safe, even comfortable, although a trade route this long is something I had only read about before undertaking it myself. I shouldn’t say any more, but if I’m going to break Terms (and I have with this letter), I might as well break them good, and give you all I’m sure you’re interested in hearing.

First, the trip across the Sea of Fallen Stars, even though I’m told we only crossed a small portion of it, was exciting but often terrifying. This is no life for me, or indeed any of the two families aboard. It wasn’t the last time we’d be on a ship.

We came to Turmish – what a strange land. They barely speak modern Chondathan there, and they are quite dusky. However, they had comfortable factories and delicacies I’d never dreamt of. We followed the coastline in a small but fast one-masted galley. We could stay quite close you see, avoiding the largest of the pirates that plague the coasts here. We rarely stopped until we came to Chessenta, and here we lingered for nearly a month. There is a great deal of political conflict between the Chessentans and the nation of our destination.

I should say that despite the language barrier (they speak no Chondathan, but the trade tongue works well enough here), the foreign and almost drow-like look of these people, their strange gods (though I think their hawk-headed Ho-Ka-Tep is the same as our Amaunator), their strange customs (I was nearly jailed for kicking a stray cat out of my way), and bizarre architecture, I rather like these people. For starters, they keep elves as slaves, and I never heard that sort of thing was possible. I’ve had many a long night of drinking their spiced wines with owners of these slaves, and I still can’t understand how they manage it.

The city I was in, Luthcheq, was beautiful in its own way, though I’m told it was much finer 100 years ago (what wasn’t?) They don’t tolerate wizards here, which is sort of what I had expected. The factory here was the finest of the lot, and the factor had met the old patriarch a few times, and was fond of him, and treated us well. I think he knew more than he let on. Anyway, we were comfortable there and really didn’t want to leave, and now I wish we hadn’t. I could have spent the rest of my days there happy, but its an expensive place to live, and our money wouldn’t last forever.

The final leg of the journey was perilous, and now we were outside the reach of the old patriarch; these were lands he told us he had no friends in, and that if they got the slightest idea that we were friendly with the Chessentans, there’d be trouble. But this is the agreement we made, and knowing that the man’s reach extends this far, I’m doubly determined to keep up my end of the bargain, and I know the others are too.

From Luthcheq, we marched and marched and marched, and the Chessentans (whom I consider mostly ‘our people’ if you catch my meaning) gave way to the mean-faced Imaskari, who are kinder, I was later to learn, than the frightening people that have become my neighbours. I write this now from a fine apartment in our little villa, which our money bought cheaply here (the old patriarch was right about that, and his factor made the arrangements for us to our benefit). We have a couple of slaves, which is new for me. It isn’t at all what you might expect, from the stories. They have their own ‘guild’ of sorts, and standards of service, and I have to sign all sorts of things to buy one, promising not to do anything terrible, at the top of the list is the strict forbiddance of introducing them to our gods and a few of their own (more of the dog-heads and such here). Though I like many places I passed through much better than this, we are comfortable, the money will go far, and indeed, I will be able to do something I thought impossible; send some back home to my sister, in the hopes that I won’t be the only Alavandor to climb out of poverty. A bag of precious stones accompanies this message, and I hope you’ll put it to work. I never made a copper as an artist, and the prospects of your career as a courtesan have likely dimmed (no offence, mind you, my lovely).

Yes, I expect the best thing to do here is to continue mimicking the old patriarch (there are no conditions to the contrary, after all), and rather than making a show of being a merchant, actually become one. I sincerely hope you’ll make a go of it and that someday you will come and visit your brother and his kin, now adorned in our simple linen wraps like the locals, whom I’ve drawn you a picture of below.

[Mulhorand | Forgotten Realms Wiki | Fandom]

You will find us all at Immotep thokari (that’s ‘villa’) on Kossur m’pha (that’s ‘road’) in dour Gheldaneth.

Until we meet again, my sister, all my love,

AA

27^(th) of SetMoon, 3,540 MC (=1403 DR)

Ha isn’t that fun! I don’t know what day it is now on our calendar, but that’s theirs!
