796 DR Year of the Gray Mists

Merrydale becomes Daggerdale following vampiric infestation.

— Zhent caravan masters report that night terrors in Merrydale have made

the route too dangerous. Seeking a new road to the south, the Zhents are the

only surface-dwellers to set aside violence and make peace with the drow of

the Ashaba Valley [906].

— Lower Tathtar and its capital Dajaan finally fall when a plague devastates

the surviving populace.

1353 DR Year of the Arch

— Randal Morn [1369], of the Morn family of Daggerdale, kills Malyk, a

minor Zhentarim mage installed by Zhentil Keep as ruler of Daggerdale, in

an attempt to free the dale from Zhent occupation. Folk of Daggerdale join

Randal Morn in a roving band of warriors, fighting Zhent mercenaries for

control of the dale.

1369 DR Year of the Gauntlet

— Randal Morn [1353] reclaims the throne of Daggerdale

1374 DR Year of Lightning Storms

Kythorn 12: Hillsfar allies with Zhentil Keep. The Black Network agrees to

invade Daggerdale and Shadowdale.

Daggerdale

Daggerdale is a true dale, or stream valley, bounded by mountains

on the west and rocky hills on the east. It is a farming and hunting

community that has largely kept to

itself in the past.

Daggerdale is and remains a Dale under

continual siege and raiding. What communities

exist are gathered behind small stockades,

and travelers of any ilk are not welcome.

Even the lowest offer of hospitality, the offer

of use of the barn for bedding down, is missing in Daggerdale.

This was not always the case. Before the founding of Shadowdale,

this region was known as Merrydale and had earned a reputation

for its hospitality and trust. A tragic infestation of vampires

destroyed that trust, and the community began to turn in on

itself. Further disasters and betrayals deepened the suspicions of

outsiders, and Merrydale became Daggerdale.

Daggerdale has learned its attitude at great cost. It stood by,

besieged by its own problems, when Teshendale was overrun and

captured by the forces of Zhentil Keep under the control of the

Black Network, known as the Zhentarim. A flood of refugees

surged into the Dale, where they were absorbed by the population.

These refugees included a large number of Zhentarim

agents. These agents rallied dissatisfied elements in the Dale,

pointing out the ineffectiveness of the Morn family, the hereditary

rulers of the Dale, in dealing with marauding orcs and

Zhentarim. The Morn family was thrown out, and a .populist.

ruler named Malyk was installed. Too late did the populace realize

that this Malyk was no more than a Zhentarim agent.

Under Malyk, the Zhentarim controlled Daggerdale and ruled

it with an iron fist backed by fireball-wielding mages. The populace

was beaten into submission both by Malyk.s agents and by

the very marauding nonhuman tribes that Malyk was put in place

to repel. Rather than pay the orc tribes in its service, the Zhentarim

would send them to Daggerdale for their version of rest and

recreation:rapine and revolution. During this time most of the

Dalesmen began to retreat behind their stockades. Other Dales

were unwilling or unable to help, being pressed by Zhentil Keep

as well.

So it was until the last male heir of the Morn family, Randal

Morn, returned to the vale. Gathering together a small band of

heroes and rebels, Randal struck against the Zhentil Keep forces,

slaying Malyk and .freeing. the Dale (1353 DR). This freedom is

little more than a word, for enemy forces to this day continue to

plunder the Dale at will. It is little surprise that the native population

of the Dale is unfriendly, suspicious, and bad-tempered.

Many of their own entered into service with Zhentil Keep, and

trust does not exist even within families.

Randal continues his war against the invaders, operating from

an ever-moving base to protect himself and his followers from the

Zhentil Keep forces. He is the last of his line, save for his sister,

Silver, who has been sent south and has married into the

Cormaeril family of nobles in Cormyr. Should something happen

to Randal Morn, a Cormyrean family will have a claim on the

lands of Daggerdale.

The Morn family ruled from Castle Daggerdale, located on the

southern flank of the Dagger Hills, with a wide view of the valley.

The castle was first gutted by Malyk, and later destroyed by Randal

Morn.s followers when Malyk was killed. It remains a haunting,

desolate place, a site of lost hopes and wasted opportunities.

The largest settlement in Daggerdale was a trading outpost on

the northern end of the Dale at Dagger Falls. Here goods and supplies

were loaded from the dwarven mine of Tethyamar and from

Teshendale for shipment down to Cormyr. With the triumph of

Malyk and Zhentil Keep, the community became a starting point

for Zhentarim caravans. Now that Randal Morn regularly raids

the area, Dagger Falls is an open town, where forces of good and

evil mix with regularity and in regular conflict. The local lord

constable is a stooge in the service of Zhentil Keep, but he can

only control what he sees, and his opponents make sure he can

see little and prove less. Dagger Falls is a nest of intrigue and suspicion.

Most of the extant temples and shrines in the area have

been destroyed.

North of Dagger Falls is one of the last pure Zhentil Keep outposts

in the Dale, the Flaming Tower. Originally built by a set of

fire giant brothers, the giant-sized tower dominated the northern

area for many years. More important, the tower existed in the

shadow of the Temple in the Sky, a flying citadel which was tethered

to the tower. A beast cult devoted to a beholder within the

tower was established, and it held wide sway over the surrounding

region in the years following the fall of Teshendale. The beholder

and giants were quickly co-opted by the Zhentarim.

At length, the Knights of Myth Drannor, a Shadowdale-based

adventuring company, destroyed the tower and killed the beholder,

setting the Temple in the Sky adrift. Since that time the

Temple has been recovered by Zhentarim agents and reestablished,

A new beholder occupies the tower, but its worship is

slight outside of some impressionable goblinoids. The ruins of the

Flaming Tower remain in the hands of Zhentil Keep.

Daggerdale sends a different representative, chosen from the

human population in its stockaded communities, to the Dales

Council each year. All these representatives seem to be stamped

from the same unfriendly mold.too proud to ask for help, too

suspicious to trust anyone else. At one point, Ilmeth of Battledale

hazarded the guess that Daggerdale only attended the Council to

make sure the other Dales were not ganging up on it. Like similar

comments about Daggerdale, this merely confirmed to the representative

that the other Dales were scant help in dealing with the

menace of plotting Zhentarim and marauding orcs.

DAGGERDALE

AT A GLANCE: Daggerdale is a true

dale, or stream valley bounded by

mountains on the west and rocky hills

on the east, and is a farming and hunting

community that has largely kept to

itself in the past.

ELMINSTER.S NOTES: Daggerdale is a

closed community, a reclusive settlement

that makes the natives of Archendale

look friendly and outgoing. No

inns, hostels, or taverns exist in the

land, nor are the people willing to offer

the space in their barns to weary travelers.

The reason for this lack of hospitality

is not known, but as in the case of

many of the Dales, most likely harks

bath to some long-forgotten incident or

slight.

Daggerdale sends a different representative

to the Dales Council each year,

but all seem to be stamped with the

same unfriendly mold. At one point,

Ilmeth of Battledale hazarded the guess

that Daggerdale only attended the

Council to make sure the other Dales

were not ganging up on her. Like similar

comments about Daggerdale, this

comment was not well-received by the

representative.

Daggerdale: Long since free of Zhent influence,

Daggerdale now finds itself an unwilling buffer

against the Empire of Netheril. In recent years, Daggerdale

has been increasingly troubled by savage

humanoids from the Desertsmouth Mountains and

lycanthropes from the Dagger Hills.

Daggerdale

Nightmarish Dale; Population 15,000

Most of Daggerdale is rolling wooded hills broken by

labyrinthine rocky valleys. It’s good grazing country

for livestock, but large ranches are confined to the

region around Dagger Falls. That name applies both

to the steep waterfall and to a nearby frontier town

(population 2,000).

The Desertsmouth Mountains tower over the

hills of Daggerdale. A great dwarven kingdom called

Tethyamar once occupied the Desertsmouths. Several

hundred years ago, it fell to orcs, ogres, evil wizards,

and fiends—some of which still lurk in the peaks.

Many adventuring companies based in Daggerdale

seek Tethyamar ruins in the western mountains.

A century ago, Daggerdale was ruled by Zhentarim

agents, but that occupation is a distant memory

today. Daggerdale has been increasingly troubled by

humanoids raiding out of the Desertsmouth Mountains

and by a resurgence of lycanthropes infesting

the crags of the Dagger Hills. As a result, the frightened

villagers of Dagger Falls have become isolated

and cut off from the other dales.

Daggerdale

f the gods were more disposed

to smile on the

Dales, this pretty wooded

Dale (once known as Merrydale

before a tragic

infestation of vampires changed its people

.s character) could well be the most

popular destination for hunters in all the

Dragon Reach. Its rolling hills are only

lightly settled and teem with game of all

sorts. Streams and unspoiled ponds are

everywhere, and one can see in this

pleasant land many ferny bowers, caverns,

and picturesque ruined cottages.1

Over its many years of occupation of

Daggerdale, the hand of Zhentil Keep

has left its mark on the Dale, but the

future for once finally shows a glimmer

of hope and prosperity. After battling the

Zhents for more than 30 winters, Randal

Morn is once again lord of Daggerdale.2

The folk of this Dale are slowly working

toward establishing themselves as an

autonomous Dale.all the while casting

a wary eye toward the crumbled walls of

Zhentil Keep. While many adventurers

are still found wandering the roads and

vales of Daggerdale, the eyes of the Daggerdalesmen

hold a glint of hope.hope

that Daggerdale can rule itself once

again, hope that they will be able to

defend themselves when Zhentil Keep

rebuilds itself, and hope that Zhentarim

spies will grow bored and leave the Dale

in the interim. Obviously, some hopes

are more realistic than others.

Orcs, hobgoblins, and bugbears.

former mercenary troops of Zhentil Keep

now left to their own devices.roam the

Dale freely, though they and the reformed

Freedom Riders of Dagger Falls come to

blows on an increasing basis. In addition,

Randal Morn has sent various bands of

adventurers out into the Dale to secure

trade traffic along the Tethyamar Trail.

Still, a lot of monsters roam the Dale, and

travelers are advised to travel with a

weapon at the ready.

Adventurers looking for fame and

glory can encounter packs of wolves,

leucrotta, and owlbears lurking in the

woods and waiting for someone to

venture within reach. Human outlaws

also skulk about the Dale, and these

people still tell tales of finding

dopplegangers in their midst, spotting

beholders drifting across Dale meadows,

or spying even worse monsters prowling

the feet of the Desertsmouth Mountains.

In the deepest woods, spiders and

stirges swarm over all intruders, and as

the years have passed, the woods and its

underbrush vegetation have grown to

reclaim more and more of once-fair

Daggerdale, choking ponds and valleys

that once held farms until treacherous

swamps and dense thickets remain.

Giant wasps and similar pests have been

recently seen in Daggerdale for the first

time.

While Daggerdale is governed once

again by the Morn family, the outlying

1A map of Daggerdale showing most settlements and points of interest is found in the section on Dagger Falls

later in this chapter.

2Randal regained Daggerdale late in the Year of the Serpent (1369 DR), as told in the trilogy of adventure modules,

the Sword of the Dales, the Secret of Spiderhaunt, and the Return of Randal Morn by Jim Butler.

areas of the Dale are still ruled by the

law of the sword. Randal Morn.s

Freedom Riders and mercenary bands

are slowly driving monsters away from

frequently traveled trails and roads, but

a vast majority of the Dale is fit only for

women and men who follow fortune

and wield a mean sword or spell. Few

coins can to be had in Daggerdale by

such adventurers, however, unless they

are lucky enough to find old ruins or a

cache of Zhent-buried gold. The

rebuilding of Daggerdale.and Dagger

Falls in particular.is perhaps where

the greatest adventure awaits. Women

and men who are confident in their

abilities to run farms, inns, and other

businesses will ultimately decide the

fate of Daggerdale, replenishing or

ultimately bankrupting the depleted

treasury of Randal Morn.

The

Countryside

Daggerdale is all rolling wooded hills

and small, labyrinthine valleys broken by

rocky crags and tors and here and there

by meadows left in the wake of wildfires

caused by storm lightning. Large

settlements and steadings are not to be

found here; rather, folk huddle in small

stockaded villages and farm only within

running distance of the walls, scratching

out a living in this perilous land. Often

they construct pitfall traps to battle

marauding monsters.and these can

slay unwary travelers just as well as a

deliberate attack.

Many of these holds are abandoned.

or stand empty after the inhabitants lose

their struggles with winter cold, disease,

or the predators. Wayfarers are warned

that other stockades are now home to

monsters, some of whom keep human

captives as food, playthings, or as lures to

bring in more human prey.

Savage and persistent monster attacks

reduced the last heavily armed

merchants. foray into Daggerdale that I

accompanied to a few battered folk who

in the end were forced to turn back. I

cannot stress this strongly enough: Unless

you are eager for deadly adventure,

venture not into the Dale very far from

Dagger Falls. Within the rest of the Dale

awaits deadly danger, but with that

danger abides the potential for wealth for

those who would dare to tempt fate.

The

Daggerdalesmen

Daggerdalesmen (a term used regardless

of their actual gender) are hunters who

use slings, crossbows, and spears or

blades and hurled axes for in-close

fighting. They are also farmers, though

for safety reasons in recent years

keeping sheep and goats has largely

supplanted growing crops. Some see

Daggerdalesmen as a cruel, surly,

suspicious people who deserve or have

earned their monstrous neighbors. This

outlook is hardly fair; how else could

any survivor in such a land become but

ready-armed, quick to strike, and wary?

Nevertheless, it is wise when

approaching a hold in this Dale to call

out one.s name and business.and then

let fall a shield or a light-hued cloak and

slowly drop all carried weapons onto it

so that any watchers can see that one

approaches the gates empty-handed.

Anathar.s Dell

Inn

This little-known inn occupies one of the

many nameless valleys in southern Daggerdale.

Since knowing its whereabouts

could well save the lives of beleaguered

travelers, know then that Anathar.s Dell

lies just southwest of the red-topped crag

that rises into the sky halfway between the

northern tip of the Spiderhaunt Woods

and Serpentsbridge, where the Tethyamar

Trail crosses over the Dagger River (as the

western Ashaba is sometimes known).

The Dell is the only known aboveground

holding of the Brightblade

dwarves, who have rich silver mines far

below the surface here. The mine shafts

are concealed by the barns of the self-supporting

farm that fills the valley, a collective

farm worked by the Blacklock and

Talop human families and the Snowgold

and Winterwood half-elven families.

Dozens of relatives seem to work about

the farm secure in the knowledge that

their borders are defended against monsters

by 10 or more trained hunting cats.

These seemingly extreme intelligent giant

tigers were gathered or transported from

I know not where as cubs, but they have

been reared here in utter loyalty to the

farm families. These .fangs,. as the folk of

the Dell call them, attack any nonhumans

or demihumans who approach the farm.

If the battle goes against the cats, one flees

back to the Dell to raise the alarm. If they

sight humans or demihumans entering

the valley, one comes to Tall Oak, a treehouse

at the eastern end of the Dell where

one of the farm family elders keeps watch,

for instructions. The fangs understand

the commands: .attack,. .stay clear,. .follow

and see,. or .escort but do not harm..

The dwarves have equipped the farm folk

with weapons and armor (a mixture of types

from chain mail all the way to full plate) to

spare. Whatever their sizes, visitors willing to

fight in the Dell.s defense can be fully

equipped for battle and if they acquit themselves

well, they are typically asked to keep

the gear they have used. Several apparently

friendly bands have reached the heart of the

Dell and then attacked, but the farm families

have dealt with them somehow without taking

harsh casualties, so they probably have

other, still-secret defenses.3

In addition to raising poultry and pigs,

the folk of the Dell plant all manner of food

crops. They do their own curing and smoking

of meat and keep massive pantry cellars

full of staples, grain, and produce (and free

of rats and mice with the aid of a large

cohort of small cats). They are able to feed

the folk of many other nearby holdings as

well as paying guests who stay in the small

circle of cottages in the Dell orchards and

dine in Anathar.s Hall at the center of the

ring. (Apples are free for the taking.)

Anathar was a mage who came to Daggerdale

long ago. On the spot where the

dining hall (an open, pavilion-with-kitchens

affair) named for him now stands, he built a

3Elminster: Among these defenses is sleep gas. Containers of this swift-acting gas developed and furnished by

the dwarves are placed everywhere around the Dell, masquerading as water pots, vases, lamps, and like. If they

containers are broken or opened, the gas causes most beings to fall senseless in a breath or two. (A successful saving

throw vs. poison at a -3 penalty must be made every round for 1d6 rounds or the victim falls unconscious for

1d4 turns. One container full of gas fills a cube roughly 30 feet square on a side.or a 30-foot-diameter sphere.

when opened; the actual volume may be larger or smaller depending on the size of the original container.) All of

the farm folk are immune to this effect after years of exposure.

small tower near the existing dwarven

mine. He offered to defend the dwarves

with his magic should they be in need and

provide them with ready food and protection

for the top of their mine shaft4 if they in

turn agreed to allow him to found a farm

where elves, humans, and halflings could

dwell and work together. The dwarves

agreed only reluctantly but were delighted

with the results until a dragon descended

on Anathar.s Tower and tore it apart.

The wizard perished even as he slew

the wyrm. Many of the farm folk fled or

were killed, but the dwarves built the survivors

a stout stone stronghouse still to be

seen under the largest barn here and

asked them to stay. The descendants of

that first farm are the families still here

today, and Anathar.s Dell still provides a

refuge in southern Daggerdale in these

times of rebuilding.

Guests at the Dell find their accommodations

simple but cozy. All guests have a

private guesthouse with a handpump-filled

bath large enough to share with a lounging

partner. A bite to eat or drink can be had at

all hours by wandering over to Anathar.s

Hall, ample water and weak wine are provided

in each cottage, and main meals are

laid on at dawn, highsun, and sunset.

Guests are free to walk in the valley but

horseback riding should be confined to the

orchard fields. Guests can also play lawn

games, sleep, or take weapons practice in

the upmeadow north of the Hall. Paying visitors

may stay as long as they wish at a price

of 2 gp per head per day, which includes all

drinks, meals, and services such as stabling

and even bedside care, if needed.

Most guests quickly notice a lot of visitors

strolling informally into and out of the valley.

Some are prospectors bringing in the

raw emeralds they have mined in the Dagger

Hills5 for sale, and others are Harpers

who have come to check on the safety of the

Dell and to buy these emeralds and the 25-

gp-value silver trade bars sent up from the

depths by the busy dwarves for sale and

trade in the wider Realms. The Harpers pay

in coins, magic, seeds, and whatever else

the folk of the Dell need. As part of the trade

bargain, they serve these farmers as fetchand-

carry transport of the goods they

require and run news and errands to other

steadings in Daggerdale, too.

Thieves and brigands are warned that

dirty work undertaken at the Dell earns

instant attack from the farm folk and their

cats, the dwarves from below, and any

Harpers within reach.and that Those

Who Harp track down and enact appropriate

justice (whether rough or civil) on any

who escape, patiently following the trail for

as long as need be. Since large foraging

bands of hobgoblins, bugbears, orcs, and

similar predators could live for two winters

or more on the food in Anathar.s Dell, the

Harpers have deliberately spread word of

the strong, Harper-reinforced defenses of

the Dell in the Dales and the Moonsea to

discourage such bands from being tempted

to strike at so rich a prize.

4A favorite goblin tactic in those days was to roll boulders down a mine shaft and then go down to dine on the

smashed dwarves below.

5The rocks of the Dagger Hills are studded with emeralds. Mining them is an age-old, dirty, and deadly occupation

of hewing out crawl-tunnels to reach the veins of gem-bearing ore and fighting off monsters, brigands, and competitors

alike. Dagger folk and others desperate for wealth have always gone to the bramble- and monster-rich heart of the

Hills to try their luck because the emeralds are so close to the surface that anyone lucky enough or well-informed

enough can recover them. An experienced miner with good strength and an eye for where to dig can gather enough

emeralds in a day to shallowly fill his cupped hand, though most of them will not be of gem grade. Most will be smaller

than the little fingernail of a human infant in size, but the occasional stone as big as an eyeball turns up.

Dagger Falls gent inhabitants and wanderers through

the Dale and probably survived being

This village is the only dependable overrun and pillaged for years for this reason. Only 800 or so folk call Dagger Falls home, many buildings in town lie empty, and most of the outlying hamlets where Dagger Falls was wont to expand

haven against the depredations of mon-

sters and brigands to be found in Dag

gerdale today. The town of Dagger Falls

remains a resupply center for all intelli-

(south along the Tethyamar Trail and

east down the River Tesh) have been

abandoned, though the town is showing

signs of filling up again now that Randal

Morn is back.

Always the largest settlement in the

Dale, Dagger Falls began as a trading post

and storage site for dwarven metals being

shipped downriver. All cargoes destined

to go down the River Tesh had to be

unloaded from barges above the deadly

falls and reloaded onto other craft below.

Humans and other folk wanting to trade

with the dwarves took to coming to the

site of the future Dagger Falls community

once the Stout Folk had fortified the transshipment

facilities that were the birthplace

of the village enough to discourage

raids. (The dwarves thereby gained

enough sense of security that they no

longer tried to slay all nondwarves they

saw in the vicinity.)

Soon after the fall of Teshendale, the

forces of Zhentil Keep slew or drove out

all folk of power and influence in Daggerdale

and occupied Dagger Falls.

They installed a local lord of their own

choosing, Malyk. When he perished

with most of his garrison under the

blades of Randal Morn, the rightful lord

of the Dale, and the heroes Florin Falconhand

of Shadowdale and Mirt and

Durnan of Waterdeep, the Zhents

marched an army into Daggerdale and

installed a constable to enforce their

rule instead.

Dagger Falls Map Key

1. The Teshford Arms (inn)

2. Dulwar Leatherworker (leather

goods shop)

3. Fulgath.s Caravan Supplies (caravan

goods store)

4. The Red Rock (tavern)

5. Lathander.s Light (temple of

Lathander)

6. The Broken Dagger (tavern)

7. Thund.s Warehouses (rental storage)

8. The market square

9. Freedom Riders. Barracks (also

current home of Randal Morn)

10. The Constable.s Tower (haunted

partial ruin)

11. Eagles. Eyrie (lookout point and

caverns)

12. Dagger Falls (not navigable)

13. The Tethyamar Trail

14. The Tesh Trail

15. The Spur

16. The River Gate

17. The Forest Gate

city at first light following the fall of the

Zhentil Keep constable, Guthbert

Golthammer (who was transferred to the

village from his previous post in Teshwave).

The more shrewd.and hence

more dangerous.agents remain in the

city, undoubtedly reporting Randal

Morn.s every move to interested Zhentarim

wizards and priests.

For years, Dagger Falls was a place of Dagger Falls was lucky that there were

treachery, beatings, night murders, and few Zhent mercenaries in town at the

torture.and although Zhentil Keep has time of Guthbert Golthammer.s demise.

fallen and the city has Randal Morn to Lack of pay and regular food convoys had

rule it, not all Zhentarim have been forced all of the vagabonds to leave town,

flushed from the city. The most obvious of foraging across the Dale or seeking better

Zhentarim agents were driven from the places of employment, such as the

increasingly violent mining country

around Glister.

Although the defeat and withdrawal

of Zhent forces has meant that coins are

a lot scarcer in the streets of Dagger

Falls and that most of the camp followers,

weaponsmiths, armorers, and other

skilled craftsfolk who accompanied the

Zhents have also left, the taste of freedom

has allowed Daggerdalesmen to

trust each other far more than they have

dared to do for decades. They have

seized this opportunity and are using it

to build and rebuild freely. Devotees of

Lathander have even finally restaffed

and begun rebuilding the local temple of

Lathander, which had burned down

mysteriously during the Zhent occupation.

(Efforts at its renewal were previously

plagued by a series of strange and

unlikely .accidents..) However, Dagger

Falls is still a rough frontier town, lacking

many amenities and featuring a populace

quick to lash out at real or

suspected troublemakers, but at least a

wayfarer in need can now get supplies,

hire aid, and find a refuge in which to

sleep or recuperate without too much

fear of awakening as a shackled slave

about to begin a grueling overland

march down the banks of the Tesh into

sale and servitude (the usual fate of

undesirables the Zhents did not find it

wiser to slay on the spot). Weapons are

openly worn in the streets and Daggerdalesmen

expect everyone who has

come from outside the walls to be

armed, so the traveler must use extreme

caution when in town.

Sources who have been in Dagger

Falls recently say that local businesses

are opening up with rapidity, so the traveler

may well find changes to what is

related hereafter. In brief, Dagger Falls is

a small, walled town of stone buildings

with steep slate roofs. (Steep roofs are

necessary since snow loads can be fearsome

during winter.) Its streets are cobbled

in some places and dirt or corduroy

elsewhere, and it lies just northwest of

Dagger Ford where the Tethyamar Trail

crosses the River Tesh in shallow safety

below the falls. The only inn to be had

that is not in the main a tavern or a longterm

rental apartment in a loft or cellar

of a town home lies beside the Tethyamar

Trail south of the ford, well outside

the town walls. A handful of working

farms surround the town, and the settlement

itself climbs from the River Gate up

a slope to the northwest, where two fortified

areas defend the Freedom Riders.

barracks (also the current abode of Randal

Morn) and the Constable.s Tower.

The Tower, once a dwarven catapult

redoubt and later a succession of robber

baron.s keeps and strongholds, overlooks

the rest of town from its height

atop the Spur, a flat-topped tor that is

exceeded in height locally only by the

Eagles. Eyrie to the south (across the

Tesh), which has seen use as a lookout

since ancient times.

It is too early to say if Daggerdale is on

the right road to recovery or if Dagger

Falls will rise to achieve the stability and

prosperity of other centers in the Dales,

but it is a place where change is being

allowed to occur at last.and most of

those changes are at least strivings for

something better. Folk in the Dales are

trying (via daring traveling merchants) to

keep an eye on Dagger Falls. What befalls

here could well herald the future of the

Dalelands in the wake of the ruin of

Zhentil Keep.

Places of Interest

in Dagger Falls

Unique Sites

The Constable.s Tower

This once-isolated keep has been rebuilt

repeatedly until what remains today is a

forbidding-looking, round, crenelated

tower standing three tall floors above the

ground and larger across than any single

fortified tower between the Citadel of the

Raven and Cormyr. Two rickety wooden

gallery wings thrust out to the east and

west. They are sheathed rather sloppily

in slate shingles and old, rusting shields

and scrap metal plates to make them as

fireproof as possible. These wings end in

balconies and are where all of the retainers

and lady escorts dwelt in the days

when Zhentil Keep occupied Dagger Falls

in great numbers and planned to make

of it a Zhentish realm extending from

Tilverton (and, ultimately, Hullack Forest

and whatever else could be seized from

Cormyr) east to the Standing Stone and

Hillsfar.

In the days of Zhentish occupation, the

cellars and dungeons of the Tower were

full, and some inevitable rumors even

speak of them connecting to the Underdark

via tunnels that also allowed Zhent

slavers to hustle captives out to the River

Tesh unseen. Supposedly these tunnels

even linked up with the cellars of the temple

of Lathander, which was burned

down, some local tales insist, after the

priests lost a vicious spell battle in the

dark spaces under the streets of the town

against Zhentarim mages on one hand

and drow boiling up out of the Deep

Realms on the other!

These days, the Tower.s wooden

wings are left to roosting birds except

for limited service as increasingly shaky

places to hang laundry. Once-deadly ballistae

and mangonels stand rotting, rusting,

and idle on the broad roof of the

central keep, and the apartments,

armories, and great hall within it lie

empty.save for fell magic.

It is not known precisely what is going

on in the Tower, but some sort of

strange, deadly cycle of magic holds

sway in here. It seems to have been first

encountered after Ilthond was killed by

the demishade Gothyl.6 (Ilthond was the

mage who occupied the tower after Tren

Noemfor,7 the first Zhentish constable.)

The effect is something that most mages

of Faerûn would be very interested to

see: Within an all-pervasive mist, a wild

variety of destructive spells lash out

within the Tower. Fire, lightning,

shapechanging, frost, and similar forces

rock the keep continually and slaughter

folk foolish enough to step inside, but in

this swirling chaos these forces are

countermanded by just as energetic

rebuilding and mending magics. Some

of these renewing magics seem to have

kept the Tower from flying apart or collapsing

in the magical struggle that has

gone on for at least a season now. This

titanic unleashing of forces can be

detected in the town below only by the

occasional flash of light or tremor, but

some people claim it is beginning to

6As told in the adventure module The Return of Randal Morn by Jim Butler.

7Tren left Daggerdale, was transferred out by his superiors, or was killed. Events are unclear and difficult to

determine since Dagger Falls inhabitants do not answer questions about the man, merely spitting in the dirt at the

mention of his name while grumbling under their breathes. Tren was the constable during the events of the

adventure module Doom of Daggerdale by Wolfgang Baur.

emit drifting areas of wild magic and

may ultimately force the abandonment

of Dagger Falls itself!

At least a half dozen powerful archmages

(including, it is said, Vangerdahast

of Cormyr) have investigated the

Tower and either perished or fled its

interior in precipitous haste, unable to

stop or escape the effects of the cycle.

Such forays may grow fewer as the wild

magic areas make visits to Dagger Falls

more deadly for wizards, but until then I

predict that tourism in the form of visiting

wizards is going to grow more brisk

in town.another good reason for honest

merchant folk to avoid Daggerdale!

Randal Morn thinks that the effect is

either a by-product of the demishade

Gothyl.s death or proof that Gothyl is not

dead but somehow trapped in the Constable

.s Tower.

Randal wants this disturbing effect

gone from the Tower because of the magical

problems it is causing and because he

wants to take over and renovate the keep,

using it as the initial tower in a new castle

for the ruling family of the Dale. Randal is

offering to immediately grant titles and an

estate, along with a future reward of 5,000

gp to be presented in five years, to any

person or adventuring band who can

prove they have cleansed the Tower of this

bizarre problem.

Eagles. Eyrie

This splendid natural lookout is a bare

rocky knoll rising well above the town.

It provides a natural firing platform for

assaults on the Constable.s Tower or

anywhere else in Dagger Falls. These

days it is guarded constantly by some of

Randal Morn.s loyal Freedom Riders,

battle-hardened and wood-wise warriors

and rangers who are always vigilant

and have a score or more of

ready-loaded crossbows with which

they can fell intruders who fall afoul of

their alarm tripwires. They dwell in

caverns beneath the summit, one of

which has watch windows very well

hidden among the cliff-face rock.

Observers inside the apparently

deserted Eyrie have a good view of the

falls and the Tethyamar Trail.

Visitors to the heights of the Eyrie are

few. The always-tough climb up the

crumbling sides of the knoll has been

made deadly indeed by several collapses

of the spiral trail and by a colony of

intelligent mimics who occupy some of

the gaps, aping rock ledges. Smart

enough not to attack either Randal.s garrison

or dwarves of the Brightblade clan

who sometimes come here and feed

them, these monsters strike at all other

climbers. Prey able to fight back is

dumped into probably fatal falls down

the cliff onto the rocks below and eaten

later.

Nothing crowns the Eyrie these days

but the stones of a long-fallen watchtower

and a beacon fire laid ready to signal

Randal if an approaching army is

spotted. The stones are kept ready in a

pile to be rolled down the path or fired

away by means of a siege engine. Three

disassembled catapults and a mangonel

are kept in the caverns.

Most folk in Dagger Falls know that

monsters lurk around the Eyrie, and that

the place has something to do with the

dwarves. Dagger Falls inhabitants recall

wyverns, beastmen, trained hunting

eagles, ropers, and stirges as having

84

infested the knoll in the past if they are

questioned on the topic. Few remember

that the Eyrie was once a dwarven stronghold

guarding busy dwarven trade routes

or, for that matter, that humans and

dwarves once dwelt happily together in

Dagger Falls before the bitter feud

between House Morn and the Brightblade

clan developed.

Randal Morn, assisted by the Harpers,

has been trying to end that feud. One of

the results of these efforts is that Brightblade

dwarves come to the hidden,

inner caverns here from time to time to

visit the graves of the clan chieftain and

elder priest, who were slain here by the

evil Morn Mage-Lord, and the Altar of

the Last Stand, dedicated to Dumathoin.

The two dwarves. tomb is a cairn

watched over by an animated war hammer,

and a rich array of gems left at the

altar in homage to Dumathoin are

guarded by special alarm spells. If these

spells are triggered, Randal Morn.s

forces here are notified. As they charge

to the defense of the altar, they sound a

horn that in turn alerts Harpers and

dwarves in Dagger Falls that the altar

has been violated. Thrice now humans

have defended the altar against thievery,

and once it has cost the life of a Daggerdalesman;

the new friendship

between humans and dwarves in the

Dale is growing firm.

Reliable dwarven sources assure me

that although exploratory delves were

made into the heart of the Eyrie, no gems

or metal of worth were ever found. Persistent

rumors of rich lodes in the Dagger

Falls area are mistaken and are probably

fueled by the old saying (whose origin has

been forgotten): .Seek out gems under

wyvern.s claw; silver waits by dragon.s

maw.. What is found in great numbers

west of the town are edible blackwrinkle

Dale mushrooms (in the deep woods) and

blackberries (at the trees. edge all along

the upper Tesh).

Freedom Riders. Barracks

The former Zhent barracks compound,

a walled area that served as a stronghold

for Zhent mercenaries and military, now

serves the interests of Randal Morn and

his Freedom Riders, the new law in Dagger

Falls. Randal Morn lives behind the

high walls of the compound as well,

meeting with business leaders, adventurers,

and common folk as he tries to

set matters right after years of Zhent

occupation.

Getting an audience with Randal is a

simple process only if one enjoys dealing

with bureaucrats. Townsfolk in Dagger

Falls still claim that both Elminster and

Khelben .Blackstaff. Arunsun were present

at the liberation of the village, and I

am certain that Elminster provided copies

of his own mountains of paperwork so

that Randal would have something to create

his own forms with. Yet, getting an

audience with Randal Morn is still easier

than visiting an eccentric old wizard.

and there is not as much pipe smoke in

the air, either. I have heard rumors that

magic does not work in the audience

chamber, but no one has confirmed this

for me. To be truthful, I never got to meet

Randal Morn, but the townspeople claim

that he has been fair and just since he

took power.

The ranks of the Freedom Riders

have been swelling since Randal.s

return as more and more townsfolk

make the decision to cast their lot in

with Randal. The compound still holds

plenty of room for the troops, though,

and once the old Constable.s Tower is

cleaned out, the military can spread

itself out a bit more. Assuming the

Tower can be cleaned out, of course,

for I note with some degree of irony

that neither Khelben nor Elminster

bothered to .clean up. the Constable.s

Tower before they left Daggerdale.

The Market Square

A key element in the rebuilding of Dagger

Falls into a stable, pleasant place to dwell

is the availability of a variety of goods for

local citizens to buy.and not just at the

inflated prices that Fulgath charged

unchallenged for so long, either. With that

in mind, the rebuilt temple of Lathander

has been busily sponsoring any peddlers

from outside the Dale and enterprising

Daggerdalesmen alike to open and stock

stalls here. In this sponsorship, the temple

has even established the Morning

Shields, a .pay-per-use. mounted escort

band of armed and battle-hardy Dagger

Falls residents, to safely bring wagons of

produce from outlying Dale farms here to

sell their goods.

All of this has made this formerly pitiful

market into a bustling place every

tenday or so and an adequate place for

the undemanding visitor to browse,

though in Sembia such a selection could

be bettered in many single shops and

considered a bad joke when viewed as

the market of any town. The local merchant

Fulgath is suspected of several

early acts of vandalism and theft that

plagued stallkeepers when the renewal

of the Falls market began, but he was

caught setting a fire under a wagon of

potatoes one night by some of the Lathanderian

priests. He had to pay a fine

and endure a private audience with the

High Radiance of the temple.and the

market.s troubles abruptly ceased.

TempLe

Lathander.s Light

This large, solid square stone building

sports a new tiled roof, but its walls still

bear the scars of the many fires that

beset it when Dagger Falls was in the

hands of the Zhentarim. It now houses

a new contingent of Lathanderian

priests and warriors who have come

here from all over the Inner Sea lands

to where they see a real chance to serve

the Morninglord by fostering new

growth and renewal where it is really

needed. Inside the temple, conditions

are still primitive and simple cots,

stools, and bearskin rugs are the sole

furnishings of the sleeping chambers

used by priests and guests alike, but the

heart of the building has been left open

as a great hall for assembly and worship.

It is lit by a network of rose-red

continual light spells cast by the resident

clergy.

Here servants of the Morninglord heal

the sick or wounded, sponsor those with

plans for new businesses and endeavors,

help folk to settle in and around town, or

aid peddlers and merchants in getting

their goods safely to market by organizing

regular and well-armed caravans. The

Daggerdalesmen recognize just how crucial

the success of this temple is to the

survival of their community and will fight

to the death to avenge any threat to a

priest of Lathander.s Light.

Sixteen priests, 22 novices, and 15 lay

warriors (.Sword Brothers.) sworn to

Lathander, and three Lathanderian paladins

of the Order of the Aster live here

under the guidance of His Radiance,

High Mornmaster Harndarr Oryn. Harndarr

is a short, squat man who some say

has dwarven blood in his lineage. He

walks with the aid of a stick, but he has a

mellifluous and confident voice that can

rise to impressive volume and the wits to

use it well. In just a few seasons he has

become one of the best-loved and trusted

men in Dagger Falls. He is working hard

to build a sense of trust and hope in the

town and make it again the proud and

close-knit community it once was. Much

of the pride and hope of the Daggerdalesmen

has been put on the shoulders

of the near-legendary Randal Morn for

years, but Harndarr is trying to bring the

hope of peace and healing and renewal

to lay alongside Randal.s now-victorious

struggle.

The temple has little riches beyond

food, medicines, and some healing

potions. The priests part with the healing

drafts only at very stiff prices to raise

funds for the town.

Under the temple lie tunnels that

have been notorious more than once in

the town.s past. Though numerous tunnels

lie beneath the streets of Dagger

Falls, those that lead to the temple have

been walled off, and some sort of warning

spells have been woven across the

work to alert the faithful to any disturbance

in their cellars.

The tunnels are said to lead to the

dreaded Underdark to caverns that twist

along under the riverbank, where smuggling

probably continues to this day, and

to the crypt of the Mage-Lord of House

Morn, the dark sorcerer Colderan. Colderan

may or may not lie dead in his tomb,

depending on what tales one hears or

believes.

Shops

Dulwar Leatherworker

Leather Horse and War Harnesses,

Tack, Scabbards, and Clothing

The small, wiry, and lithe merchant

Dulwar came to Dagger Falls from

southern Daggerdale just over a decade

ago. The war harness, scabbards,

sheaths, bracers, clothing, and rather

crude, but warm and dry, boots Dulwar

makes here in his smelly tannery are

very popular with the citizenry (and

were with the Zhent garrison while it

was here, too). Dulwar gets many of the

hides he uses through the work of his

tanning team, a group of well-armed,

strong souls who go out with a wagon

into the perils of the Dale to butcher

livestock for landowners and buy and

bring back the hides.

Dulwar.s friendship with Randal

Morn has become an increasingly open

secret around town since the Zhents

left, and he and the priests of

Lathander.s Light obviously like and

respect each other. Dulwar donated his

own time and that of his tanning team to

hauling supplies when the priests were

repairing the temple, and he and the

temple.s priests have helped each other

on many projects since.

Do not expect any stylish stuff here,

or even simple adornments or

scrollwork. Dulwar makes plain, solid,

serviceable gear, and many a weary

warrior or local in need has been right

glad of that.

Daggerdale

Capital: Dagger Falls

Population: 28,041 (88% humans, 5% dwarves,

3% half-orcs, 2% gnomes, 1% halflings)

Government: Lordship

Religions: Lathander (Mielikki, Silvanus, Tempus)

Imports: Armor, books, glass, jewelry, metalwork, paper,

textiles, weapons

Exports: Furs, meats, ores

Alignment: LG, NG, N

Daggerfolk are known to be hard, grim, and unforgiving,

largely because Zhentil Keep has been trying to claim

their land for decades, seeking to rule this dale as a client

state or smash it as Teshendale was ruined. In fact, Zhent

agents ruled the dale for nearly thirty years, driving

Randal Morn—the dale’s rightful lord—into an outlaw’s

life in his own land.

Three years ago, Randal Morn (NG male human

Ftr6/Rog4) overthrew the Zhent occupiers in

his homeland and reclaimed his ancestors’ seat.

Barely holding his war-torn community

together in the face of Zhent aggression,

Randal Morn is in no shape to help other

dales with their problems.

Of all the dales, Daggerdale is the most likely to

offer contracts and support to adventuring parties willing to

fight Zhents, clean out monster-infested mines, rescue hostages

taken by bandits, kill those same bandits, or travel into the mountains

after predatory vampires. If Daggerdale is to survive, Randal

Morn’s followers and hired agents must pacify the dale’s wildlands

and drive out local monsters.

LIFE AND SOCIETY

The years of Zhentarim occupation forced Daggerfolk farmers to

put aside their plows and become hunters or herders. Venison and

goats could be hidden from Zhent tax agents; fields planted with

winter wheat and hardy cabbages could not.

Most Daggerdale communities keep their gates locked, opening

them only to trusted friends or people vouched for by someone

inside. Some still behave as if they were at war with the Zhents. It’s

possible that the roughness of current Daggerdale society will

smooth out over time, but Daggerfolk might also make themselves

as ruthless as the Zhents in order to survive.

MAJOR GEOGRAPHICAL FEATURES

Most of the land is rolling wooded hills broken by labyrinthine

rocky valleys. It’s good grazing country for livestock, but large

farms are confined to the region around Dagger Falls.

Border Forest: The Border Forest is the frontier connecting four

different regions of Faerûn: Daggerdale and the Dalelands to the

south, the Moonsea and the Zhents’ Citadel of the Raven to the east,

Anauroch to the west, and the Tortured Land to the north. The

forest’s native inhabitants are fey, such as satyrs, pixies, grigs, and

dryads. In part because of their constant fight with Zhent loggers

working out of Snowmantle, Border Forest fey tend toward cruelty

and violence instead of the lighthearted capriciousness typical of fey

farther south.

Dagger Falls: The waterfalls above Dagger Ford, which give the

town of Dagger Falls its name, are not navigable by boats. Unlike

Feather Falls along the Ashaba, Dagger Falls’ sheer drop is too

much for salmon returning from the Sea of Fallen Stars to overcome.

Dagger Hills: Some parts of the thick bracken of the Dagger Hills

are not bandit country. Unfortunately, such areas are monster country—

wolves, leucrottas, owlbears, lycanthropes, and even beholders

hunt through the thick underbrush. In the years of Zhent occupation,

cleared farmlands were reclaimed by nature—not by the

forests to the south, but by the dense thickets and thorn fields of the

northern hills. These plants are as resistant to fire as they are to

human intrusion.

Desertsmouth Mountains: These rough mountains form the western

border of the Dalelands and tower over the hills of Daggerdale.

Now that the city of Shade stands in the Shoals of Thirst, the

Desertsmouth Mountains shield the Dales from more than just the

harsh winds of Anauroch.

The great dwarven kingdom of Tethyamar once occupied the

Desertsmouths. Several hundred years ago, it fell to orcs, ogres, evil

wizards, and fiends, and some of the last still lurk in the peaks. The

last king of Tethyamar, Ghellin, died of old age in 1369 DR in

Cormyr, still dreaming of retaking his lost realm.

IMPORTANT SITES

The town of Dagger Falls is the cornerstone of Daggerdale. Most of

the region’s important sites are in or near that town.

Constable’s Tower: Rebuilt many times over the past few centuries,

this fortress near Dagger Falls is now so imposing that

Randal Morn wishes to take it over as the new seat of his government.

He is prevented by an ongoing magical cataclysm within the

structure—a tempest of lightning bolt, fireball, disintegrate, and

meteor storm spells occurring in alternating cycles with powerful

magic that repairs the damage to the keep itself. Fools who step into

the tower suffer from the damaging spells but are not helped by the

repairing spells. Randal Morn would pay 5,000 gp and give land and

a title to anyone who could make the keep livable.

Dagger Falls (Large Town, 2,804): They’re not pretty, but to the

inhabitants of Daggerdale, the stone walls of Dagger Falls are the

surest haven in a troubled land. The walled town sits just northwest

of Dagger Ford, where the Tethyamar Trail crosses the River Tesh

beneath the falls. The stone construction and steep slate roofs of the

town’s buildings allow them to survive heavy winter snows.

Dagger Falls began as a storage site for dwarven metals being

shipped down from the mountains to the southern lands. After all

these years it’s still a frontier town, a place where everyone wears

weapons and occasionally has cause to draw them in the public good

(as well as in the pursuit of private quarrels).

Eagles’ Eyrie: Rising above Dagger Falls, this rocky knoll houses

altars sacred to the Brightblade clan of dwarves, who sometimes

return to make sacrifices. Any favors that can be done for the

dwarves make Randal Morn happy, because his family’s prior relations

with them amounted to a blood feud. He can’t afford this type

of conflict if he wants to keep the town out of the hands of the

Zhentarim.

Lathander’s Light: The temple to Lathander in Dagger Falls still

smells of smoke from the fires that ruined it during the Zhent occupation.

The Daggerfolk rebuilt the temple as a sign of their determination

to heal the scars of the occupation. Lathander’s clergy are

well-loved, not least because a sizable number of young priests from

around the Dales come to Daggerdale to spread the Dawn Lord’s

light where it’s most needed.

REGIONAL HISTORY

Daggerdale began as the happy community of Merrydale. The community’s

peace and prosperity ended bloodily during an infestation

of vampires. People forced to stake their undead children found

little merry about the dale from that point, and over a few years the

appellation fell out of use. Daggerdale—a translation of the valley’s

original name in the dwarven tongue—eventually supplanted the

name of Merrydale.

Daggerdale prospered for a long time as a trading partner to the

dwarven realm of Tethyamar. When that kingdom fell, Daggerdale

came on hard times. Its bustling trade vanished, and Daggerdale

became a rustic backwater, little troubled by events elsewhere in the

Dalelands.

That changed in 1336 DR. Two decades after Teshendale fell to

the Zhents, Daggerdale met the same fate. Randal Morn, the hereditary

ruler of Daggerdale, was driven into exile in the hills. For

years, he fought a grim campaign against Zhent forces occupying

the dale’s biggest town, Dagger Falls.

In 1353 DR, Randal Morn and his friends succeeded in killing

Malyk, the puppet ruler the Zhents had installed to give the dale a

show of autonomy. This only increased Zhentil Keep’s determination

to keep the dale beneath its boot. The Zhents installed a series

of constables and hired unsavory locals for the constabulary as an

auxiliary to the Zhent garrison. The fight against Randal Morn’s

guerillas in the hills appeared to go in the Zhents’ favor, so the constables

made the most of their opportunities to lord it over their

fellow Dalesfolk.

Morn’s personal war turned into an all-out battle in 1369 DR, when

he succeeded in retaking the town of Dagger Falls, killing or driving

off all the Zhents. The long battle left many scars—the war in Daggerdale

was often a civil war, pitting Dalesfolk against Dalesfolk.

PLOTS AND RUMORS

Zhentil Keep’s numerous setbacks and factional infighting over the

last five years provided Randal Morn with a narrow window of

Zhent apathy in which to free his land. That window has now closed.

The Zhents control virtually all of the Moonsea. Some among the

Black Network are looking southward again, and Daggerdale may

not have the strength to shake off Zhent rule a second time.

Dark Deeds, Bright Relic: When the Zhentarim burned the

temple of Lathander, they also looted its altars. One of the temple’s

holy relics, a magic torc that radiates light capable of dispelling

darkness spells, turns out not to have been taken back to Zhentil

Keep. Divination spells cast by the priests have determined that the

torc is located somewhere within Eagle’s Eyrie, possibly in the areas

that are sacred to the Brightblade dwarves.

It’s a delicate mission, because the Brightblade dwarves have their

own sacred relics in the Eyrie that need to be left alone. Only adventurers

considered trustworthy by Randal Morn or the temple of

Lathander will be considered for the job.

For the official historical details on Daggerdale you need a wide range of TSR products, foremost among them the basic 2^(nd) Edition Forgotten Realms Campaign Set by Ed Greenwood and Jeff Grubb (TSR - 1993), the Dalelands accessory by Richard L. Baker III (TSR - 1994), Volo's Guide to the Dalelands by Ed Greenwood (TSR - 1996), Doom of Daggerdale by Wolfgang Baur (TSR - 1993) and the Randal Morn trilogy of modules - Sword of the Dales, Secret of Spiderhaunt and Return of Randal Morn - all by Jim Butler (TSR - 1995).

In addition to these gaming products, the novels Cloak of Shadows and All Shadows Fled by Ed Greenwood (TSR - 1995) and Finder's Bane by Jeff Grubb and Kate Novak (TSR - 1998) also provide very valuable details not revealed elsewhere.

Since her first appearance more than 600 years ago, Gwath's fingers - alive and later undead - have been deeply entwined in many of the evil doings involving both Shadowdale and Daggerdale, beginning at about the time the Twisted Tower of the drow arose in Shadowdale and continuing on through the vampire plague that caused Merrydale to change its name to Daggerdale, through the rise and fall and second rise and fall of the once chosen Sammaster and on through time, to this very day.

Gwath - According to Elminster

Shortly after reconquering Dagger Falls in the Year of the Gauntlet (1369 DR), Randal Morn was visited quietly by Elminster of Shadowdale, who passed on information that he and the mage Rhauntides of Highmoon in Deepingdale had gathered concerning the great lich Gwath. Elminster told Morn that he and Rhauntides believed that Gwath was rising again, and that steps must be taken to destroy her, or his Dale easily might fall again or even be destroyed. The following summarizes information that Elminster gave to Randal Morn:

The first traces of Gwath in the Dalelands go back to the ill-named Year of the Kindly Lich (606 DR), when a traveling mage from ancient Cormyr named Garthur and his band entered the southeastern part of the Daleswood (unofficial), now known as Spiderhaunt Woods. The band had many difficult encounters with gigantic spiders in the forest, some of them believed by Garthur to be unnatural creatures. Garthur noted in his journal that the forest still had been peaceful and free of such spiders in a similar expedition some 10 years earlier.

He and his band also discovered new trails that had been made into the Daleswood, and they were following these trails when the many encounters with the giant spiders occurred. After a bit more than a day in the forest and with many hard battles behind them, Garthur and his band came upon an opening in which stood a larghe and evil-looking towre of great dimension. Furthermore, this tower was guarded by a band of four highly capable warryors of ye darke elven ffolk.

It came to combat with these four apparent drow, and after three of the dark elves and one of Garthur's warriors lay dead before the tower, a woman, in part of the drowe race, emergethed from the towre and identified herselfe as Gwath the mighty and she did saye, that she beeth a priest of Llolth. She then attacked us with magickes most powerful and evil, and only in the last minute was I able to use mye own magickes to remove myselfe and the last survivore of my group to safetye. And long it was that our wounds did healeth, before we again were of our known strengths.

Elminster noted that the description in Garthur's journal of Gwath being in part of the drowe race is a very interesting remark and also one that has led to differences of opinion between himself and Rhauntides. Elminster said his library in his tower in Shadowdale holds a number of texts taken from the drow chambers in the Twisted Tower after their defeat, and these texts prove almost conclusively that Gwath was a full drow who came from the dark elven cities beneath the Dalelands.

In his youth, Rhauntides spent a decade (unofficial) studying in Halruua, in the Shining South, where he claims that the name Gwath is known from ancient tales in which a purported half-drow named Gwath once had been active as a mighty priestess of Llolth where the half-drow nation of Dambrath now stands, and further, this Gwath vanished inexplicably from the South in the early 7^(th) Century DR, at roughly the same time Garthur recorded first mention of the Gwath of the North.

At this time, Elminster said, Myth Drannor was rising to the height of its glory, and the drow race seemed determined to halt the expansion of the moon elves westward from the legendary city. As a priestess of Llolth, Gwath seems to have been in the forefront of this campaign. The ancient elves of Myth Drannor came to know Gwath as a powerful priestess of drow sapper bands that conducted guerilla warfare by night in Cormanthyr on the fringes of Myth Drannor, and Elminster said he has no doubt that Gwath played a major role in opening a gate for the Army of Darkness into Myth Drannor in the Year of the Lost Lance (712 DR).

Gwath did not escape unscathed from her attacks upon the elves of Myth Drannor. The rulers in the Elven Court learned of her tower in Spiderhaunt Woods, as the borderland forest had come to be known, and led many forays into the wood to attack and inflict damage upon the tower. With time, Gwath was forced to flee, and she sought refuge in the foothills of the Desertsmouth Mountains on the western border of Merrydale, where she began construction of the Gwathburg in the Year of the Scarlet Sash (679 DR), finishing it in the Year of the Lost Lance (712 DR), as the Army of Darkness begin attacking Myth Drannor.

After the fall of Myth Drannor in the Year of Doom (714 DR), the drow controlled the entire surface valley of the Ashaba from present-day Ashabenford to deep within the Dagger Hills north of Shadowdale. The real goal of the drow seemed to be to gain the iron-fisted domination of the western Dalelands, from Spiderhaunt in the southwest to the Desertsmouth Mountains in the West and the Tesh Valley in the north. Again, all indications are that Gwath was the spokeswoman of Llolth and the leader of the drow movement.

Gwath's next goal was to destroy the growing human population in the western Dalelands. To this end, she summoned 15 great vampire lords from another plane to her Gwathburg, immediately exerted control over them, and ordered them to infect all of Merrydale with vampirism. These vampires first were seen in the Year of the Grey Mists (796 DR), when Merrydale began to be known as Daggerdale. It appears that Gwath turned over her Gwathburg to the vampire lords at this time and moved to a new, secluded tower in the Desertsmouth Mountains, one that has not been located to this date, although sages believe it to be in the northern part of the mountains, somewhere south of the old Tethyamar mines.

At this point, however, Gwath and the drow had overextended themselves. Both the elves of Cormanthyr and the men of the western Dalelands and Cormyr arose against the vampires and the drow. The vampires had completely overtaken the village of Highstone in the Dagger Hills, turning its entire population into vampires. In a daring daytime raid, elves from the Elven Court attacked the village, which had come to be called Bloodstone (no connection to the type of chalcedony mined in the Cold Lands and called bloodstone), and before the sun set on that fateful day, a wooden stake had been driven through the heart of every vampire in the village.

At almost the same time, a band of 400 armed men from the southern Dales and northern Cormyr, led by a group of priests of Lathander from Cormyr, fell upon the Gwathburg shortly after sunrise. After a day's fighting that caused many losses among the men of the Dales and Cormyr, the last of the 36 drow soldiers defending the castle of the vampire lords was killed, and with less than 30 minutes remaining until sunset, the priests of Lathander drove stakes into the hearts of all 15 vampire lords.

This is believed to have taken place in the Year of the Patchworked Peace (802 DR). The vampires of Merrydale, now Daggerdale, had not been completely destroyed, but the vampire lords and their slaves in the village of Bloodstone were eradicated. The villagers of Daggerdale were able to track down and destroy the remaining vampires in the dale on their own.

Gwath returned then to Daggerdale, this time to enact her wrath upon her former servants. She cursed the spirits of the 15 vampire lords and of the population of Bloodstone to haunt the Gwathburg and their homes eternally, as ghosts. She cursed the 35 drow warriors of the Gwathburg to defend it forever, as skeleton warriors, and she cursed their drow commander to lead them forever, as a death knight. And other curses she placed too on the Gwathburg, to entrap those who would violate it.

At this time, the power of the drow in the Ashaba Valley had reached its peak, with the Marshall-Mage Azmaer commanding the Ashaba Valley from the Twisted Tower in today's Shadowdale (official). In the Year of the Leaping Lion (834 DR), men built Castle Grimstead on the border of today's Shadowdale as a defense against Azmaer's drow.

The castle stood for 30 years, until Azmaer's forces succeeded in destroying it in the Year of the Broken Branch (864 DR). But the days of the drow were numbered. It took another 42 years, but in the Year of the Plough (906 DR), Azmaer and his drow had been driven from the Twisted Tower, the human settlement of Shadowdale had been created, and Ashaba became its first leader.

For more than 100 years, the annals of the Dales had been written without a single mention of Gwath's name. It was as though she had vanished from the face of Faerûn. This is not what happened, however, Elminster assured Randal Morn.

Elminster said there are many signs that Gwath's break with the faith of Llolth had begun long years before the vampire lords were summoned to the Gwathburg, and this break was culminated definitively in the Year of the Patchworked Peace (802 DR), when the vampire lords and the vampires of Bloodstone were destroyed.

Gwath, according to Elminster, had become fascinated with magic, and she had abandoned her priesthood and her own drow race to turn to wizardry and to seek power. He believes Gwath may already have been a mage of low level at the time of Myth Drannor's fall, and that she ascended to lichdom when she revisited the Gwathburg for the last time in the Year of the Plough (906 DR).

By that time, the tale of the ghosts of the vampire lords, skeleton warriors and a death knight in the Gwathburg had circulated through the Western Heartlands, and adventurers sought out the castle, either in search of a fortune or, on religious grounds, to attempt to send the undead to their eternal rest.

In the Year of the Queen's Tears (902 DR), Gwath had battled a mighty beholder named Garnath, seeking to steal its magic. After a long and dangerous battle, Gwath succeeded in killing the beholder and binding it to her, undead. In the Year of the Plough (906 DR), after Azmaer's fall and with the increasing human population in the Dales, she placed the undead beholder in the Gwathburg, to eternally guard it and to bind those who enter the castle as undead into service guarding the castle. As far as is known, Gwath never again returned to the Gwathburg.

Having divorced herself from the drow and Llolth, Gwath now seemed to be determined to become a power in her own right, and to this end, she began turning her attention to organizations of power in the Realms. Gwath also moved covertly within the Dalelands, disguising herself as a seductive, dark-haired human woman, which hid both her drow heritage and her decaying, undead lich's body.

In the early 10^(th) Century DR, there are records of Algashon, the Bane priest who swayed Sammaster, founder of the Cult of the Dragon for many years, often being seen in the company of a beautiful, dark-haired mage cult member who was known as Gwann. There can be little doubt, Elminster told Randal Morn, that Gwann was in truth Gwath. Details on Algashon and the history of the cult can be found in The Cult of the Dragon by Dale Donovan (TSR - 1998).

In these years too, cult annals record that Gwann gave birth to Algashon's daughter (unofficial). Elminster is convinced (unofficial) that she is none other than the demi-shade Gothyl, who captured the Sword of the Dales and Randal Morn in the Year of the Gauntlet (1369 DR), after taking up residence in Gwath's long abandoned tower in Spiderhaunt. Gothyl, according to Elminster, was a mage who was turned into a demi-shade when her attempt to ascend to lichdom went awry. For more details, see the Sword of the Dales Trilogy by Jim Butler (TSR - 1995).

The mage Gwann was a prominent cult member for many years, most certainly a Keeper of the Secret Hoard. Her base of operations seemed to extend from Shadow Gap to the Mines of Tethyamar. After the fall of Sammaster, Algashon and Drakewings left a vacuum in the Cult of the Dragon in the early years of the 13^(th) Century DR, Gwann was one of the more powerful Keepers of the Secret Hoard to fill it.

By the end of the second decade in this century, Gwann appeared to be one of the leaders of Algashon's old faction within the cult, which had begun advocating that it should affiliate with the Untheric dragon goddess Tiamat. The remaining Keepers of the Secret Hoard in Sembia, the North, the Vilhon Reach and Sunset Vale were opposed to Gwath and the former faction of Algashon and supported the old cult faction of Drakewings.

When the Algashon faction attempted to wage war upon the Harpers, in the Year of the Horn (1222 DR), at the time the Harpers had come under the sway of the evil Harper King, Gwann led the attacks upon the Harpers, and the Drakewings-Faction withheld its support. leading to serious defeats of Gwann's faction.

The schism in the cult continued another 60 years or so and even deepened, until the Year of the Many Mists (1282 DR), when a lich calling itself Sammaster arose in the Desertsmouth Mountains near Shadow Gap. Gwann/Gwath was among the Keepers of the Secret Hoard who visited the lich's lair in this year, and they left convinced that the lich was indeed Sammaster.

They also left the lair abhorred over Sammaster's return as a threat to their own growing power and agreed that he must be destroyed. And it no doubt was Gwath, with alignment concealed, who contacted members of the Harpers identifying herself as Gwynna, Witch of the Desertsmouth Mountains, to tip them to the location of Sammaster's lich near Shadow Gap.

The Harpers arranged for the paladins of the Company of 12 to investigate the tip, and these did indeed find Sammaster's lich, which they, destroyed, without finding the phylactery, however. Interestingly enough, the name of the Keeper of the Hoard Gwann disappears from the annals of the Cult, simultaneously with the destruction of Sammaster's Lich

More than 20 years before Sammaster's ascension as a lich, in the Year of the Bright Dreams (1261 DR), the mage Manshoon had formed the Zhentarim and had risen to the leadership of Zhentil Keep. By the Company of 12 had destroyed Sammaster's lich in the Year of the Blacksnake (1285 DR), the Zhentarim clearly were the waxing power in the Dalelands, just as the divided Dragon Cult's power was waning.

It was in the Year of Spilled Blood (1315 DR), 30 years after the destruction of Sammaster's lich, that a beautiful, dark-haired human mage identifying herself as Gwenda appeared at the gates of Zhentil Keep announcing that she was seeking an audience with Lord Manshoon. The unfortunate Zhentilar guards at the gate laughed, and then literally died laughing. When the woman brushed aside other armed resistance by the Zhentilar and a few lesser priests of Bane, she was encountered by the high priest Fzoul Chembryl, and after a discussion with him was indeed taken in to meet with Manshoon.

The contents of those conversations are unknown, according to Elminster, but it was obvious that Gwath had found a new organization with which to ally herself, and that Gwenda was nothing other than a new manifestation of the lich Gwath. After the meeting with Fzoul and Manshoon, Gwenda returned unharmed upstream on the Tesh and traveled as far as Teshwave, where she had settled down.

It is said that Teshwave and other parts of Teshendale were struck with devastating magicks before the Zhentilar overran the Dale in their conquering wave in the Year of the Gulagoar (1316 DR). After their conquest, there was no further sign of Gwenda in the dale, dead or alive, but within days, a beautiful, black-haired woman named Gwenda showed up in Dagger Falls.

With considerable money in her pockets, she purchased the decrepit Broken Dagger Tavern inside the city walls, which soon become the center of discontent over the ruling Morn family's lack of action to help Teshendale when it was overrun by the Zhents. Gwenda the tavernkeep was one of the main supporters of a good customer of her bar named Malyk, who said he could protect Daggerdale better than the Morns.

Before the Year of the Gulagoar (1316 DR) was over, a popular uprising had unseated the Morn family in the Dagger Falls area and put - unwittingly - the Zhentarim puppet Malyk in the Morn family's place, although the Morns continued to be the predominant power in southern Daggerdale. Within a few rides after Malyk's assumption of power, Gwenda sold her tavern to a disabled Zhentarim tracker named Tharwin One-Eye, and nothing more was seen of her in Dagger Falls or elsewhere in Daggerdale for many years to come.

Elminster assumes that Gwath spent the next 40 plus years in her hidden tower in the Desertsmouth Mountains, perhaps receiving magical items or knowledge as payment for her service to the Zhents. There is no further trace of her in the history of the Dale until the Time of Troubles. In the Year of the Shadows (1358 DR), a Harper ranger spied a dark-haired skeletal creature he took for a lich dabbling around the abandoned cottages in the former village of Sunstone southeast of Dagger Falls.

A short while later Elminster and the ghost of the Witch of Shadowdale Syluné, among others, came to the same spot to destroy several malaugrym (shadow masters) and the newly established gate through which they had come. The details on this encounter can be found in Ed Greenwood's novel All Shadows Fled (TSR - 1995). Elminster has little doubt that the skeletal figure seen by the ranger was anyone other than Gwath, in the process of opening the gate.

After the Time of Troubles and this one incident in the former village of Sunstone, nothing more was seen of Gwath in Daggerdale. Elminster had assumed that Gwath's physical essence as a lich was beginning to degenerate and that she most likely was preparing to move on to existence as a demi-lich.

Only recently, he said, was his mind rather abruptly changed on this point, although he still does not know how Gwath hopes to maintain her physical essence. Harper spies have reported that a beautiful, dark-haired human woman who calls herself Gwannet has been quietly visiting with important merchants in Sembia who are believed to be associated with the secret Iron Throne. Furthermore, according to the Harper spies, Gwannet has been presenting genuine looking documentation to the Sembian merchants which identifies her as a special ambassador of Randal Morn's.

She also is telling the merchants that once he has established firm control over all of Daggerdale and has destroyed the Flaming Tower, the last Zhent bastion in the Tesh Valley, that Randal Morn wishes to enter into an alliance with the Iron Throne, giving the organization the exclusive trade rights along the old Zhent trade routes through the Tesh Valley.

Lad, ye can be sure that Gwath isn't making these promises without some good idea of how she can make them come true, El told Randal. I think the next problem ye're going to have to take care of is Gwath herself!
