The translation of a scroll discovered at a House in North Ward by members of the Company of the Red Herring. It was later learned that the author was Quellar Dalael.

Father Dalael, Quevin and Issilith;

left|100 px
Business on the surface is recovering. We are currently allied with a Zhent trading company called Company Ersgul (Coat of Arms inset); the Company is one of Fzoul's major arms in the west, and falls directly under the control of one of his most (or perhaps least) trusted and powerful allies: Xulla (mark inset, though I doubt you would forget it), whom you know.
right|100 px

The treachery of the Zhents is as abundant as we have heard. Xulla gives us bits of information, and frequently has us raiding holdings which we took to belong to Ersgul.

left|100 px
Company Ersgul, as we have recently learned, is pitted against another, called Company Drurginz. I take this to be an arm of Manshoon, but I am uncertain. I have also inset their shield. I am suspicious that they may have connections to one known as Zantiid. Only by the grace of Vhaeraun was I able to learn Zantiid’s mark and live to tell of it (but that is quite another story). Please send back any word of Zantiid’s politics, if you’ve any knowledge of them.
right|100 px

The family is good. Corinna is pregnant, and Arlos has become trusting of us again. Having just returned from a long vacation in Cormyr, I have amassed a great amount of information about this society, and I am sending it to you. Some tomes are aged (for human work) and will require our sages to interpret. The language of the human race is such a malleable thing.

I must go now; this message will (I hope) be finding its way to you in the hands of a new (I am as equally surprised as you) Vhaeraunite. He is worthy of our trust. Upon receipt of this message, please consider sending more of our people. The climate is once again favourable, I assure you. Soon, our numbers will be needed again.

Vhaeraun shall remember.

150 px

(Sigil translated as \"Secondboy Dalael\")
}}

<gallery widths=\"150px\" perrow=\"2\">
image:Original Handout 1.JPG
image:Original Handout 2.JPG
</gallery>
