DDC – 1481 – 18: Report from Helm Thunderstorm, Foothills Farm, on the Cleansing of the Sons of Bel from that Settlement 
17 Marpenoth, 1481. Report sent from Magistrate Thunderstorm to Bishop Whitegate, summarizing the eradication of the Sons of Bel in Foothills Farm. 
GFD Notes: 
These are the most pristine sources any chronicler could hope for; a formal report issued through formal channels, available in duplicates in several reliable repositories. 
But I would trade all of that for thirty minutes of discussion with Dretch to get his side of the story. I was granted neither that nor his report to Reks on the matter. While I do consider the threat to Foothills Farm to be concluded (in fact, it really didn't get off the ground, before Dretch ferreted it out), there is a growing list of primary sources that could explain what happened but are hard to come by. 
-GFD 
17 Marpenoth, 1481 
Report from Your Servant, Magistrate Thunderstorm of Foothills Cathedral to, His most Holy Excellence, Bishop Whitegate of Dagger Falls. 
Bishop: 
I commit this report to our library here in Foothills, and by carried correspondence to you for the benefit of the Yellow Abbeye. 
The crux of this report is on the doings of our Brother Avenger Alystair Dretch, and his timely interdiction in the development of a branch of what I have come to learn is a cult called the Sons of Bel, ostensibly worshipers of Bel and other such lesser devils. 
Brother Alystair arrived here on the 14th of Marpenoth, and after Compline, barred exit from the Cathedral, and had our Lt. round up everyone else in town that didn't attend the ceremony. Agitated though the Chaunteans (and select others, including a few visiting dwarves from Tethyamar) were, everyone in town complied, with the exception of a few villains who were about to be found out. 
Dretch declared that anyone not in attendance be tracked down and interrogated. 
Normally I would not take orders from any but your Holy Excellence, but I did assist Br. Dretch in this request, though he was (as is his way) impolite and impertinent in his manner of asking. But he was (again, as is his way) correct; a few men from the local militia hid in their basement when all were summoned, and we discovered that these men, all locals who of late spent a great deal of time ranging to the north, were indeed members of the Sons of Bel. We discovered prayer books and other materials that I have submitted to you with this report, that alone would have made their conviction certain. But Dretch also coaxed the truth from them and discovered that more of their number were camped to the north and were cavorting with hobgoblins from the edge of the dale. 
On the morning of the 15th, Dretch departed on his own immediately after Matins, leaving instruction for the Sun Blades to follow him after sunrise. He knew the location of the camp (some three miles north of the farm, and a mile east of the Feyspring River), and wanted to reconnoitre it on his own before the troops arrived. 
There he discovered a group of 6 men that had come through in the first caravans of spring, all the way from Cormyr. They had been part of a larger caravan that went to the Castle to trade and broke off at some point to perpetrate this devilish plot. We later learned that these men had corresponded with the locals for nearly a year, getting the foundations of the cult in order, and that they somehow convinced their local counterparts to inculcate a renegade element of the Visideck (the western-most settlement of the Grentzeldeck hobgoblins) to partake in this devil worship. 
What Dretch found was a small camp of the Cormyreans and a dozen hobgoblins, three of which were possessed by devils. Dretch decided not to wait for the Sun Blades to catch up to him before engaging, though he did circle the camp, attacking from the north, so that any escapees would run into the Sun Blades coming from the south. However, there were none. Dretch put them all to the blade, and mercilessly tracked down the few that attempted escape, and executed them. 
The Sun Blades arrived shortly after to help secure the site and seize all evidence of this cult and materials useful to it. Some were destroyed on-site, and others you will find accompanying this report. It seems that this business is concluded before too much mischief could be accomplished. But I am left with a few questions unanswered, to my satisfaction or indeed of Mr. Dretch's. To wit: 
1. How did the Cormyrean-branch of this cult recruit three of our soldiers, with remote correspondence? 

2. How did they know about a renegade element of the Grentzeldeck, when most of the dealings of these insular hobgoblins are unknown to even our most accomplished scouts? 

3. What was the long-term plan for this cult? A few fiendish hobgoblins don't constitute a security crisis, especially for our farm, which has Class IV fortifications, and a constant supply of soldiers marching to and from the Castle and the Falls. 

I will leave these questions with your Holy Excellence and pray for your wisdom and my learning on the matter. 
Your servant, 
Magistrate Thunderstorm. 
GFD Notes: 
What isn't mentioned in this report, as it was discovered days later, and I have only heard about it by talking to folks in the single tavern at Foothills, is that the three men of the town in custody all died mysteriously while Alystair was hunting down their co- conspirators. I have only rumour and hearsay to go on, but they were consumed by some unnatural fever which desiccated them over the course of a couple of hours and ended their lives. I SPECULATE that this was some sort of pact they made with their master, Abigor, whom they were ultimately unable to summon, or to be of any further use. So many loose ends here 
-GFD
