DDC – 1481 – 4: A Discussion with Administrator Reks about Tethyamar 
From our meeting on 15 Flamerule, 1482 
GFD Notes: 
This is another verbatim recording of a discussion with Reks, this time about Tethyamar. I have transcribed it as close to the actual discussion as possible. Note that we had this discussion in '82, but the conversation starts where the letter from Warburton leaves off, so I have tucked it neatly into the narrative here. 
-GFD 
Grafton Fitzdecker: I wonder if we could now turn to discussing Tethyamar, and the involvement of the White Cloaks thereunder? 
Administrator Alen Reks: Oh, dreadful! Would you not rather prefer to discuss any other sort of thing? Perhaps what weeds grow in manure around here in various seasons, or perhaps some of the stomach- bugs that colour the stools of the orphans? What what? 
GFD: If it's all the same to you, I should love to hear about Tethyamar. There is a lot of discussion on the other side of Netheril about it, and I think the folks at Candlekeep would love to get your opinion on the matter. 
AAR: I know when my ego is being stroked, my handsome interrogator, so don't think you've fooled me. But do stroke away, all the same. If I am as important as you say, and I hope at least half of that is the truth, I should give you at least the other half. What exactly would you like to hear about? 
GFD: Can we start with the first mission? 
AAR: Do you mean when the Cloaks smacked Deadnettle on her rump and sent her on her way? I see you do not, so I guess that you mean the first mission after the dwarves came back, is that so? It is, isn't it? Dreadful! Oh well, here we go. 
It was early Tarsakh of 81', not that long ago, even though it feels longer. The Captain, who's leadership I would never question, who's decisions are as a sound as can be, pledged uspledged us, you see? 
Should we talk about the difference between pledges and oaths and promises and whispers into the ears of your sweetheart? Let's do. There's no difference! They all amount to the same; no terms, no coin. Pledges are terrible things, and this was the worst of all, because as I understand it, and I do fully, and I'll do my best to get you at least halfway to that, this was a pledge made between two warriors of Amaunator while in the warriors embraceas delicious as that sounds, it was even more expensive. 
Some day I shall have to send an invoice to Knight Commander Cassius, who dragged Iolus into this with his handsomely mutilated face and similar words. 
Anyway, yes yes where were we? Tethyamar, early Tarsakh. In goes the Captain (though he wouldn't have been my first pick for a dungeon-delve, but who's listening to me, besides you?) along with Durandal, Bollinger and Creed. They meet a dwarf named Guggenheim who would join the team at the end of my story, but I'll try to not jump ahead, unless you'd permit it, and we can discuss something else? 
No? 
Fine, let's continue. Our team heads down to Base Camp Silver; this is the big staging area in a place called Blue Balls'n'All, and it's quite something to see, or so I'm told 
GFD: Do you mean 'Thorbardson's Hall'? 
AAR: [Waves dismissingly] who can remember all those dwarven names? It might be. Anyway, at the time there's a hundred or so dwarves down there, in two camps, as I'm sure you're aware of by now. What a mess! Why a few hundred dwarves can't sort out who's in charge is the very reason they don't deserve to run an entire city, if you ask me, and you have, so I'm telling, and I'll tell you again, though people won't like to hear it; dwarves really have no business underground running cavernous cities. 
Look at the fine work they've done constructing the best stone buildings in our fine Town, in under two years! That is their calling, indeed; to add something to the cities of Men, not to run caves of their own. But you'll strike that, won't you? I'm quite fond a few of them, and there is one lass that comes around here I rather like, though they tell me she's young 'for a dwarf', but what's that to me? I'm not sure what her real name is, but I call her 'Cheeks' and she seems to like that well enough. She has the most darling rosy cheeks you seeAnyway, where were we? 
GFD: Base Camp Sliver 
AAR: Right, terrible place. Dark, cavernous, hot as Avernus haha! You'll be asking me more about that soon enough, and I'm happy to jump ahead! Do you know we profited nicely fighting the Sons of Bel? 
Perhaps not from a human resources perspective, but all the Sembian gold they had was quite useful, and they parted with it pretty easy. Would you like to hear about Sier or Abigor, or Azbael first? 
GFD: I should very much like to hear about what Iolus found in the Lower Halls if it's not too much to ask. 
AAR: Well, I should say it is rather too much to ask, and it's good for you that the shape of your mouth pleases me, or I shouldn't answer anything that comes out of it. But I'll sing for my supper, precious. 
The place that ended up being the immoveable mountain, as it were, in the terrible depths, is the Caulderwell. [An animated gesticulation of surprise follows for an uncomfortably long time]. Yes yes, the Caulderwell. One of the most impressive feats of engineering in thousands of years of dwarven tinkering. This huge cavern was an underground lake (those terrify me, by the way, and I hope never to see it), and of old, the clever little beardies turned it into a plumbing system; they made a massive pump in the middle of it, and it supplied fresh water for 1000's of dwarves in miles of tunnels, though what they used it for, I've never figured out. It wasn't washing up, I can tell you. Though Cheeks gets her name because of her tidy little round face, and I'm sure she's as clean and pure as the water that used to run from the Caulderwell. 
But anyway, after the dwarves abandoned Tethyamar thousands of years ago, or whenever that was, the Caulderwell quit working. It backed up with sewage or some damned thing, and anyway, it's a swamp now. Do you know it's so hot and humid down there, that it actually rains?! Iolus was quite surprised. That little red-headed-lizard-tamer of his, Guggenheim, he said it's completely natural and tried to explain condensation to me, to which I explained the only condescending thing was his assumption of his place in the intellectual hierarchy of things, and I can tell you that we've never really gotten along well since. He insists that I don't like dwarves, to which I tell him I like Cheeks well enough, to which he tells me I'm breaking some silly rule of theirs about suffrage, and the whole thing really is a suffrage of sorts for me[takes a very deep breath, drums his fingers on the table, craning his neck back to look at the ceiling]they are a difficult people, dwarves. And for all the tales of their mining- begotten-wealth, the only value I've ever seen out of them is from laying stone on the surface. 
But I see you are again hoping I'll return to discussing the horrors of the deep, and I'll wrap it up neatly by saying this; the Caulderwell is broken, and they'll never be able to get enough water to actually have more than a few hundred dwarves or their slavesnot slaves in the whips and chains sense, you get me of course, but those who take pledgesanyway, yep, it's so hot down there you sweat without knowing it, and menmen-mennot dwarf-menthey don't do well so deep. So you need a lot of water, and well, where once was a great lake and machine for moving it where it should go, now there's a swamp (in a dungeonhow dreadful), and it's full of Duergar, who are like dwarves only they eat more mushrooms, and they aren't happy about the dwarves wanting to move back in, and I'm not sure if I blame them. How long do you have to let go of something before it's not yours anymore? 
And honestly, wouldn't' they all just be happier above ground, where they can lay stone and friends (short and talldelicious, so delicious), and have a proper bath once in a while, like my Cheeks? Do you know that she puts a bit of Lilac in her bathwater? Well, someone does, isn't that just mouth-watering? A delight for all senses, her. 
GFD: So you don't think we should be down there? 
AAR: We? Which 'we' is that? Not you and I, certainly! Not the White Cloaks, just as certain. The dwarves are supposed to be from there, and I'm not sure they should be down there, but I'd never call them 'we', unless Cheeks convinces me otherwise, and she just might yet. 
I can tell you this; my ledger doesn't lie when I don't want it to, and we're many thousands into that damned cave, and not a PENNY has come out. Sure, we have some title to some hall, and that's all well and good, but someone has to maintain it. I for one won't pay for a single tallow-candle to light it, or I wouldn't if I had my way, which is usually not the case, and more's the pity, because I'd have new stuffing in the very chair you're sitting in as I tell you all this if I did. But no, we've got sore rumps, empty pockets, and half my team in a dungeon. 
GFD: 'half your team'? 
AAR: I'm rounding and taking ownership, of course, but you follow me. I'll tell you this; those five men that came out of there weren't the same. Well, Guggenheim was OK, by dwarven standards, and even most of our own, his personal hygiene notwithstanding, but the others are all a little off, and Mr. 
Bollinger, whom I'd prefer to have here in the workshop, has a cough that no one can get rid of. I'd send him to the Sisters at Charnel Priory if I had my way, but I don't, and so he's in the Deep again, with Durandal, Creed, Guggenheim and a phlegmy chest. Iolus is back up at the Castle, which is a good place for him. When he was lost, we were all a little lost. If I'm honest, and you know I'm compelled to be, I wrote to Lumina many times that month, asking her what to do, and if she'd like to return. She 'prayed' for Iolus, which seemed like too little, but in the end he turned up, and that's the way it works you see; once in a while, if you pray for everything, you get a morsel here and there and you say "praise be wumpanumpa" or whoever it is you think made it rain, and you keep on, and you titheanyway, this isn't where you wanted to go, is it? I see it is not. 
So yes, we have a team down there, and they've been to the Caulderwell a dozen times, and rebuked each one, but I'm told their making progress, if not any money. The worst of it is that the Redjacks, those brutal mercenaries working for Tasster, they've actually taken and held a couple major objectives in the Upper Halls, and they are now gaining ground in the Lower Halls as well, or so I hear (and I hear quite a bit). 
So, yes, we're losing in the Deep. We're losing money, we're losing time and people. The Redjacks are beating us, and that's shameful. We're getting routed by those mushroom eaters. And if all that isn't enough, we've learned that most of it isn't as disorganized down there as we thought; there is a deep- menace named Vestibulon or something like that, and heshe? It's probably a she; the worst things underground always are. Vestibulon runs things, or some cave-version of running things. The Duergar are afraid of her, as are some of the other semi-intelligent things we've met down there. 
So yeah, if the heat, and the distance, and the cost, and the swamps and internecine disputes, and the dark and the smell and the cost weren't enough...did I mention the cost? There's a monster in charge of it all. So I wish Iolus would go talk to Cassius and tell him "Sorry, mate, I think we need to change the deal", but those Amaunatori never change a deal, which is their biggest strength and weakness all at once, if you ask me, and you have, so I've told you as much. 
Now, I have a jar of Honey of the Marque and a fresh loaf of sourdough bread that pairs wonderfully with Ferguson's Red, a bottle of '71 of which I have uncorked and in peril of wasting, and no patience left for refusals of such fine victuals. Shall we?
