DDC – 1480 – 13: The Kingdom of Tethyamar 
A note written by Luminous Whitegate at the request of your humble chronicler. 
GFD Notes: 
While visiting the Castle shortly before my departure, I had the pleasure of discussing many things with Lord Luminous Whitegate. He provided me two evenings at either end of a full week's stay in his fortress, and I am sincerely grateful for his time; he is the busiest person I've ever met, and he is not young. 
On the first evening, I asked him about Tethyamar, and he replied "I'm quite fond of the dwarves, as you can imagine. Let me search my papers for something I wrote a couple of years ago on the matter. My pen is a better caretaker of memories than my mind at this point." I'm not so sure of that, but I played along. The man is sharp as a judge, even at his age. 
At any rate, he provided me with a copy of a note he'd made in the early spring of '80, which I submit below to your benefit, my dear reader. 
-GFD 
I would probably not be writing this as I am, if not for Tethyamar. As I have mentioned, and has been recorded in greater works, the Tethyamar League won the day at the Siege of Lastsun, and effectively ended the war, for now, with Netheril. Netheril took such terrible losses that they could not continue any sort of aggression. Unfortunately, they have never sent a delegation to discuss a truce, so we can only assume that there is more hostility on the horizon, when they have the means to carry it out. 
I will add presently that I find it strange that Prince Melegaunt does not sue for terms of any sort; the Netherese princes responsible for other polities have taken a civilized, if devious, approach to politics. Melegaunt seems determined to wipe Daggerdale off the map, whatever the cost. 
At any rate, he will have a difficult time of it, now. The East Gate of Tethyamar was discovered in the Gorimdun Mine by the White Cloaks, and this discovery brought life into the movement to reclaim this ancient dwarven city. The dwarves showed up in the nick of time at Lastsun, and though they suffered dearly for their ally-saving intervention, they have continued to trickle into the dale ever since. Monthly, more dwarves are added to the population of the dale; at first, they settled here at the Castle as preparations were made to descend into Gorimdun. Before the snows set in, several hundred dwarves descended with a year's supplies. 
All winter long, reports came back from Tethyamar. They had indeed found the eastern reaches of the Upper Halls of Tethyamar, and had indeed secured them. However, as one engineer explained it to me, it was like they had just found and secured the first inn outside the gates of Waterdeep; there was an 
impossibly larger city awaiting, and it was held against them. The depths of Tethyamar had become a thriving environment of deep-things and undead, and they would have to fight chamber-by-chamber for any further gains. 
In the dead of winter of 1481, the Tethyamar League officially changed its name to the Emissaries of the Kingdom of Tethyamar. They still hold a tower in the Castle and have likewise set up an embassy in the Town as well. This spring, they began construction of a grand fort attached to the outer bailey of Tesh Valley Farm, and as I am told, there is a field full of tents surrounding the place. They are calling this small fort 'Stationer's Hall', and it is to be used as a sort of supply-post for the expedition, and also as a trading post with the dalesmen. It has rekindled the blighted economy of Tesh Valley Farm and brought a good deal of excitement to those fine people. 
Presently, there is a dispute in the Kingdom. The heirs of the Kingdom have been meticulously traced for the several hundred years of their exile from the city; in fact, they have always made claims of finding the place and resettling it. This has been the stuff of dwarven legend and fancy, until last year. Now the claimants to the throne have come forth. As it turns out, the commonly acknowledged and rightful heir to the throne was Ghellin Thordbardson of Clan Iron House (the founding and ruling family for the entire duration of dwarven occupation of the city). Ghellin died a decade ago, and left behind twin sons. These two, Tasster and Tezster are not on good terms; with the discovery that they would indeed have a kingdom to share or to split, they have already done the latter. This has divided Tethyamar before it has even been retaken. 
I know that Gambledin has done everything in his power to reconcile the brothers, as have many other dwarven political personalities, but the two remain inextricably at odds, and a layer of complication has been added to the resettling of Tethyamar. 
As we are forever in their debt for their sacrifice at Lastsun, and our deliverance, we have pledged ourselves to aid in any way we can, ad infinitum, to the rebuilding of Tethyamar, and I eagerly await my chance to visit Thorbardson's Hall and declare it in the very halls of this legendary city.
