DDC – 1481 – 19: A Discussion with Administrator Reks about the Sons of Bel 
From our discussion on 29 Elesias, 1482 DR 
Once again, I record our discussion as it unfolded, warts and all. Apologies in advance 
-GFD 
Grafton Fitzdecker: Now we come to the Sons of Bel 
Administrator Alen Reks: Yes! I consider the matter quite concluded. Shall we sup? 
GFD: "Quite Concluded"? 
AAR: Yes, very quite concluded. And we made a tidy profit, too, human resources notwithstanding. Do you know that Flora Scarlett still 'attends us' in Charity, at a fine town home we almost never use any more? That sounds wasteful, doesn't it? But it isn't. She's a useful bird, she is. 
GFD: From the reports I've read, no one knows how the cult even infiltrated the dale, though it is no doubt the influence of the Netherese, or at least Melegaunt or his agent, Mouvranesh. Are you not concerned that there are more of them out there? Or that we missed some of the ring leaders? 
AAR: Heavens, no. Or, yes, rather. Of course, I'm concerned. They did terrible things, especially up at Dwimmerholme, where I think the body-count was highest. Or was it that damned mine in Charity Hills that had the most dead? Who remembers? At any rate, we left no trace of those cults in Dwimmerholme or Foothills. Probably Charity too. 
GFD: "Probably Charity"? 
AAR: Probably, yes. Shall we talk about probability for a moment? Ah yes, ha ha! It is probable, indeed likely that you and I will crack open a bottle of Immersea Red (I have a '73 that can't wait another year to be uncorked), and perhaps a wheel of Mystral Grove sharp cheddar. Then it is probable that you'll tell me what you're actually doing here, and what you actually want to know, because certainly (which is at one end of our probability scale) you didn't come here to learn about dead cultists and their vanquished organizations. 
GFD: I remain uncertain[I pause and Reks smiles]of the status of the Sons of Bel, and I think the Keep will want to know about it. Also, it seems to me that there is a high likelihood of there being elements of it remaining in Charity. From what I've read, Gideon was no mastermind. He was a learned and connected man in his caste, but there is no evidence that he had any connections in Cormyr, where all of this seems to start. Someone else must have given him the translated Belial Prayerbook. 
AAR: Perhaps Old Man Muloch? Oh! I can see you don't like that suggestion one bit, and I confess that I just said it to see if you were paying attention. No, I think he was the real victim here, in fact. Do you know that his household has undergone complete Dissolution? That's a thing in the Dutchy (which I call it), and their idea of good government. So now there are three great families in Charity, and I trust they 
can tend to their own affairs. After all, who am I to suggest that they need our help. They will ask if and when they do. In the meantime, I'll send my Cloaks off to fight more proximal and exciting foes. 
GFD: You don't find the very fact of their reduction to three houses somewhatcoincidental, or worth concern? 
AAR: Not in the least, my pretty-blue-eyed, interrogator! They followed a process, as is their way; after sixty-six days of probate, they underwent a three-hundred-thirty-three day Dissolution, and now, four minus one is three, and the matter is concluded, without cause for further inquiry or worry, wouldn't you agree? 
GFD: I see 
AAR: What matters is that Charity is run by good men and women (it's mostly women who call the shots up there, you know, and you'd be surprised what actually happens behinds those lovely silk curtains they use at the Old FortI hope you spent some time there), that it is a useful and profitable trading partner, and that they keep their corner of the map clean. If you want an opinion on their quality as a neighbour, go talk to the folks at Liberty Hill. Well, don't talk to Bannit, or do, but don't talk about Charity. Or well, do, but be prepared for one of his sermons. He'll talk for thirty minutes about the vices of Charity, all the while scratching his groin, a condition he's been to Charnel Priory about, but they can't seem to fix that particular 'rash', and I wonder if he hasn't confused the doors of the Old Fort for those of the Priory, but I'm bordering on heresy at this point, and I'll remind you that Bannit is a capable shepherd, and leave it at that. But yes, in Liberty Hill, they know that they will never have problems on their border with Charity. It's as peaceful as a sleeping babe in that crease of our fine dale. But what were we talking about again? Do you like a bit of jam with your cheese? 
GFD: That sounds lovely, thank you. Do you mean for me to read between the lines, Mr. Reks? 
AAR: With regards to Magistrate Harbaugh? Oh of course; I made the whole thing up about him going to Charnel Priory. Not the itch though, he does seem to scratch a lot. I think the most logical explanation for that is all the hugging he does with pilgrims. Half of them have lice, and the other half have something worse half the time. But that is the sacrifice we make to provide hands-on pastoral care, isn't it? He really is a master of it. I think he genuinely enjoys it. Maybe too much 
GFD: I was asking about Charity, though, not Bannit. I've met him. He is a good man. He does itch a bit, as you say, though. Still 
AAR: Ha! I hoped others would catch that! Well, not 'catch it' catch it. I wouldn't wish lice on anyone. He really should ask Troia her secrets though. I've never seen a single probing finger of hers out of place, and she shakes more hands than the doorknobs of the Cathedral. But she'll have me skinned alive if I say anything more, so we'll move on. You're asking me if I mean for you to read between the lines with regards to Charity. And to that I say, "No sir, Charity is a fine neighbour of the dale, providing peace, superb wool, steel and other trade goods, and the finest entertainment you can get for more than two hundred miles. Nothing to see here, except the girls and boys at the Old Fort." To wit, I recommend Bailey Buxom (I think her last name is actually 'Bottom', which is a naturally wonderful name for a woman in her line of work anyway, but her natural assets made for an obviously different nom-de-guerre) in the former case, and Tommy Timber in the latter, and many have thanked me for the recommendations, though not Madame Rowan, who I think ought to. 
GFD: You mean Medea Rowan? The Madame of the Old Fort? 
AAR: The very same. She should thank me, and should have thanked Gale too, but that's another matter entirely, or not entirely, but, well, Gale was complicated, and twice as right half the time as most of us. Which reminds me that Ferguson too, ought to thank Gale by name. Afterall, it was Gale's dedication (and impetuousness, let's be honest) that found his boots leaping into Avernus itself, and the Chancellor ought to have a statue of that man made. Oh, and Shea and Abigail too. By all the gods, I sincerely, and I mean this, you scribbling clockwork thing, I sincerely hope their souls are in good order. But in matters such as those, I am out of my depth, and I believe you are out of time, our dinner tonight before your departure notwithstanding. Let's to our victuals and fellowship, and leave the matter of politics and souls alone for the rest of the night, shall we? 
GFD Notes: And that was the end of that. Reks was right that I was out of time. I was to head out in the morning with a caravan headed through Cormyr, then find passage back to the Sword Coast. As it was, I held the caravan up from leaving until noon, and why they didn't leave without my wine-drenched self is something I think Reks had a sly hand in. So, what remains at Charity is vague, though under control, and not worth the hassle to disrupt. By Reks' accounting at any rate. If I had time, I'd ask Bishop Whitegate, and intend to do so some other time. 
-GFD
