The Shadowfell is a nightmare-replica of the real world that is draped in constant gloom and shadow.  No light can penetrate very far, and the brightest lights brought by adventurers cast but an anaemic and muted light, which flickers and casts unnatural shadows.

When Deep Night comes to the Shadowfell, which it does at no particular interval and for no measurable length of time, those from other planes and other worlds are on their own.  As the Deep Night comes, the darkness cannot be fought back with any light; even the divine light of Amaunator, cast by his most dedicated and favoured devotees, is not enough to penetrate this devouring blackness; the shadows cover all, and seep into everything and everyone.

On the Night when the White Cloaks were countless miles journey into the Shadowfell, following the tracks of dead enemies in the quiet and immutable abomination landscape of Shadowfell-Daggerdale, these heroes learned the terrible secrets of the dreamscape of the Shadowfell, and none have ever been the same.

\"I think the shadows are growing longer, and our light failing\" warned Lumina, as Tuugan inspected the trail ahead, and her companions stood in a semi-daze, looking in various directions, wincing to penetrate the gloom.

\"I think you are right, captain.\" replied Tuugan.  \"I can't make out these tracks, even with your light directly on them.  What new darkness is upon us?\"  Tuugan stood up and turned around to find his friends, but none were in sight.  He called out, and heard the muffled replies of Lumina, and a moan and a thud somewhere near or impossibly distant.

Tuugan stumbled around in the darkness, which was now complete.  He reached out where he thought Lumina would be, but found only a dust-covered tree which creaked in protest at his touch.  He called out, and from what sounded like a half mile away, he thought he heard either her or Troia call out, but after that, only silence.

\"I will never get out of here.\" Tuugan thought to himself. \"If only I wasn't so tired or weak, I'd just gut myself where I stand.  I'll sit.  No, I'll lie down, and there is no use keeping my eyes open in this blackness.  This must just be a terrible dream.  I must be at home, and morning is about to come to wake me.

\"Please, Amaunator...I never ask anything of you, come and wake me...\" and with this, Tuugan slept. And dreamt.

*The Shadowfell Nightmare of Iolus Warburton
*The Shadowfell Nightmare of Troia Trustar
*The Shadowfell Nightmare of Alystair Dretch
