Excerpts from "The Catacombs of Sembian Expatriats in Thistle Ridge"

A chapter in "A History of the Subterranean Resting Places of the Faithful Dead in the Eastern Heartlands", on loan to Brother Vessuvian from the Historic Wing of the Yellow Abbeye.

This chapter penned by Grey Brother Garibold Vegner of Mulmaster in 1437 DR.

…I have seen the crypts of some of the great families of Searloon, and was surprised to find their grandeur emulated in a bywater village in the troubled corner of the Heartlands knows as Daggerdale.  There isn't much for our clergy to appreciate here, besides the churchyard around the Cathedral of Amaunator in the central town of Dagger Falls, and the curious town of Charity and its "Potter's Field", which is more akin to the shoulder-to-shoulder interment one finds in Westgate.  I have heard that a fine crypt is to be found beneath the Cathedral, but a very ornery Magistrate would not permit my entry.  Invoking my Office and Jurisdiction over the resting places of the Faithful swayed the magistrate not for a moment, and as I write this, in the fine taproom of a comfortable inn I was surprised to land up in, I never did catch so much as a sniff of the Cathedral's Peacefully Resting.  But the Magistrate did send me to the town I visited today, and in which I presently enjoy a fine lentil soup and some fresh bread, delivered by the brightest little sprite to ever put a smile on Yondalla's face.  I am in the Sweet Berry Inn in Thistle Ridge, and have walked today in the catacombs of the Sembians that have settled here alongside much older families that hold the Old Faith of the Wood.  This is a curious town, and I would like to learn more of its people, but I don't think I'll have the time.  There is just enough time for me to finish my soup, bread, and these words, before I depart for home in the morning.

But I am rambling again and wasting His ink and paper.

The Sembians of Thistle Ridge have imported their architecture here, if not all their culture.  The civic buildings here are new and fine and would be a credit to any piazza in Saerloon.  Escorted by a young Magistrate of Amaunator to the large school in town (again, a structure that would not be out of place in Foro Maggiore), the young lady did her duty in delivering me to the entrance of the fine crypt in the basement of the school.  There were no Grey Brothers to be found here, and not even a hint that the Lord of the Dead had ever been mentioned in the place.  Nearly devoid of evidence of any god at all, I marvelled at the liturgically austere nature of so fine a place.

The deep stair that delivered me to the crypt arrives in the middle of three layers of a large theatre-like sepulchre.  Some hundred feet across in either direction on the upper mezzanine, I wouldn't have been able to take the entirety of the place in, if not for the Light the young Magistrate summoned for our mutual benefit.  As I was stood on the middle level, I could see clearly to the level beneath, and later circumnavigated the levels above and below.  Each is set about with fine columns and arches which support the school above, and many well-wrought steps to make passage from one level to the next easy.

The resting places themselves were in the Sembian style; long horizontal alcoves along most of the walls wherein hundreds could be interred.  The alcoves in most places were stacked three high and three wide to a section.  Each section separated by fine arches and other embellishments, and often a passage to another part of the subterranean reaches of Thistle Ridge; I have learned that the town has a complicated network of sewers that lace through natural caverns which deliver a river to some unseen deep, contributing to the cleanliness and health of the people.  But the crypt was dry as a bone and in good order.  Few alcoves had Resting Faithful interred, as I have come to understand that this crypt is less than thirty years old, and the original families of the town refuse to bury their dead here.

After looking about on the upper levels, I mentioned to the young magistrate that I was surprised to find no conspicuous interments, to which she replied that those are made sometimes in side chambres of the lower level, and sometimes on the estates of the landed families of the area, and in any event, I wasn't welcome to 'snoop about any further'.  I won't impugn the hospitality of the folks of Thistle Ridge (least of all the least of them, who have filled my belly and warmed my feet tonight), but these Amaunatori are insufferable.

What a strange and fine place, where the dead are stacked three by three by three.

I look forward to heading home in the morning.

---
Source: Email from Les Blackwell, 13 Aug 2025
Subject: Excerpts from "The Catacombs of Sembian Expatriats in Thistle Ridge"
