==The Ambassador's Envoy==
thumb|400px|Hannigus of the Freylith, Captain of the Unbending
“What are you waiting for?”

A day had passed since the three exiled elves had turned their backs on their kin in the courtroom, and marched due west, towards Daggerdale, before they saw another elf. Even at outposts along the way, where they expected to see some of their kin, they found none. Word of the exile preceded them, and those in their path were ordered to give them a wide berth. It had only been twenty-four hours, but the full weight of this punishment had already sunken in; they were exiled, and this meant that not only could they not return home, but they would not see, under any circumstances, those they left behind. They were marching towards a new life that they had no control over. This new life was a complete and terrifying mystery to them.

But one elf did find them, the day after their sentencing. He was coming from the west, and his was a face they were not familiar with. This was a stern-faced wood-elf named Hannigus, from the Freylith (‘Frozen Stone’) clan, in the northern-most reaches of Cormanthor. He wore the proud frost-blue tattoos of his clan on his cheeks, but he also wore a heraldic broach on his cloak; a sword with a broad-leaf shaped blade made of silver. He hailed the three wary exiles, and they approached him with caution and no small measure of distrust. Already, their own people seemed alien to them.

The elf introduced himself, and explained “I was sent to intercept you, by Ambassador Miritar. The terms of your exile are known to me, and I am here to lend some small assistance to you. Take this” he said, pulling a sealed document from inside his cloak. “These are diplomatic papers that extend a pardon to you, directly from the Bishop of Dagger Falls. They will grant you entry to the town and to Castle Radiance.” He extends the papers to Ineluki, but withdraws them as the exile reaches to take them. Hannigus frowns and continues:

“They do not grant you immunity of any sort” he says, waving the papers in a gesture of reprimand or warning. “You will be held accountable to the laws of Daggerdale, once you cross the border into the dale. What is more, they explain that you are to head directly to the Castle, and report and submit to Ambassador Miritar with all due haste. I don’t know why you three have been extended this opportunity, but do not squander it.” With this, he hands over the papers.

“Brother” Ineluki says, trying to bridge the obvious gap between Hannigus and the exiles. “I don’t know what you have to gain by serving the humans. These papers...” he says with a sneer, slapping them into his other hand with no reverence at all “...a pardon from some human bishop who doesn’t even know the name of the orb that shines on him...these mean nothing to me!”

Hannigus smiles and says “no, I am sure they don’t. Not yet. But you have much to learn. You will learn or you will die. I will not say that I know what it is to be exiled; my heart is sad for you. But you have done enough to invoke the ire of Marshall Medeila, and good...” He is cut off by Eremus, who spits at the name of Medeila and interjects:

“Bah! It’s not only us she’s sentencing, but my father too!”

“Yes” replies, Hannigus. “The sins of the father multiplied and accounted for, eh? That’s the word at the Castle already.”

Then something becomes clear; Hannigus is several days away from the Castle, but he comes with papers already signed and sealed, though their trial was only yesterday. They had no chance with Medeila. The full extent of her message was then fully understood. There was no effort made to conceal the predetermined outcome of the ‘trial’.

With the faces of the exiles now expressing this discovery, Hannigus again smiles his derisive smile. “Yeah, I wondered why I was intercepting you three so close to home. I guess the trial was...expeditious, no? Well, as I said; you have a chance. Don’t waste it.”

Cirdan then stepped forward, and addressed the elf before him. “In what capacity do you serve? And how are you to help us now?”

“I am the Captain of The Unbending,” replied Hannigus, indicating his sword-leaf broach. “We are a small company attached to the Embassy; we take bounties and gather intelligence for Ambassador Miritar. We have various other duties as well, such as guiding exiles to the Castle.” The looks on the faces of the exiles told Hannigus he had gone far enough. “Don’t worry” he continues. “You are in no peril of being conscripted to join our ranks. We neither want nor need you. I am merely going to point you in the right direction.”

With this, he turns about, and motions for the exiles to follow.

==Out of the Wood==

A day later, the group emerges from the deep of Cormanthor, and into the dale. The first time the road really opens up is when it meets the Tesh River, and turns sharply westward to follow the river which pierces through the heart of the dale. Before long, they are passing by the odd camp and abandoned settlements, and a road begins to form beneath their feet. This bit of road is not new to the exiles; they have terrorized it before.

However, after a few more hours, the road becomes well-kept, and to the anger of the exiles, they can see that the ever-encroaching oaks of Cormanthor have been chopped away from the road, to keep it broad and clear. Either sensing the ire of the exiles over this issue, or simply guessing at it, knowing their history, Hannigus turns and says “Get used to it; they slash and burn everything in their way here, and it only gets worse; you will be in the town by nightfall, and you won’t like that place.”

“You said ‘you will be in the town by nightfall’, not ‘we will be’” notes Eremus.

“Indeed I did. I am departing to take care of another matter in under a mile. Keep walking this road until you hit a big walled farm; that place is called ‘Gribbons’. They hate and fear you there, and if they figure out who you are before you can spring that document on them, you might be killed on sight. I’d skirt the edge of that place if I were you.

“A few hours past Gribbons’, you’ll come to the town. You’ll smell it an hour before you see it, even though it is clean, by human town standards. Make for the gates to the south of the town; there is a vast bridge of white stone that crosses the Tesohoril, and upon that bridge is a small fort; there you will find the gates and the gate wardens. Hand over that letter, and shut your mouths until you are spoken to. Once you are allowed in, you will enter, and seek out a place called ‘Quick Axes’. You’ll stay there the night. The proprietor knows you are coming, and Miritar has already paid your bill. Do not skirt the town and travel in the night around it; you will be found and killed.” The guide pauses to make sure his instructions have sunk in. The exiles are unhappy with the orders, and though they are simple wood-folk entering a big human town for the first time, Hannigus is satisfied that they aren’t total fools, and continues his instructions.

“The next day, you will set out for the Castle. It is another two-day’s walk to the west, and you can’t possibly get lost along the way. You are to travel with company, however; the roads are not safe to travel, as there is a war that is just wrapping up on the western front of the dale, and anyway, Miritar does not want you travelling unaccompanied beyond the town. Inside the Castle, you are to head to the Tower of the Embassy. You will report to the Ambassador there, and await further instructions. Is that clear?”

Ineluki and Cirdan both nod their heads, but Eremus pauses. “Brother Eremus...?” inquires Hannigus.

“So, let me see if I have this straight?” Eremus says, taking stock of his situation, half to himself, and half to those listening. “We are sentenced to exile for the murder of some humans, rightly or wrongly, it doesn’t matter. The term of our exile is an unprecedented 160 years, unless we can impress some Ambassador, who will shorten our sentence as he sees fit?”

“You’ve got it right, as far as I can tell.”

“Right. And now, you will be leaving us in these human lands, and trusting that we will follow our instructions?”

“Indeed. As I said, I have other matters to attend. Besides, you seem like honourable folk. You accepted your punishment as oaks do the winter, and have not once complained of it to me. “

“But you know that we are murderers of those that destroy our forest?”

“I am no judge, brothers. You seem like honourable folk to me.”

There is a long pause as the exiles size up this strange scout. At length, he simply bows with a slight tug of his hood, and is off into the woods to the north.

==Sentinels of Dagger Falls==

Following Hannigus’s advice, the trio of exiles skirt around Gribbon’s Farm, sticking to the border of the woods and the cleared farm fields. In the distance they can see the stone walls of this ‘farm’, and the glinting mail of the men upon them. The Daggerdale notion of cultivation is strange indeed to these travellers.

Before the sun has fallen behind the mountains to the west, the exiles come to the river-town that they have heard so much about, but have never seen. Dagger Falls is an impressive place for the newcomer, whether said visitor plans to move there or burn the place down. The walls are thick and high, and the fortified ‘bridges’ of the place are marvels of engineering that even elven architects can appreciate. Hannigus was right about the smell; as they come up the valley, following the road that follows the river, the three exiles can smell the large town long before they can see it. However, it does not have the terrible smell that even the smaller lumber camps carry. The smell of human waste is minimal, overshadowed by the smells of food cooking in a hundred different homes and businesses, and the smells of industry – the coal-fires of the smiths and the rich smell of leather tanneries. If not for the coal-fires, it might be almost tolerable.

Approaching the southern gates, which are set into the fortified bridge that crosses the fast, cold river Tesh (Tesohoril in the elven tongue), the elves see that a long column of men, animals, and wagons is cued up outside, and that yellow-robed clerks seem to be processing them slowly, while a score of mail-clad soldiers dressed in the yellow tabards of the Sun Blades keep order. Getting somewhat closer, they see two other men keeping order here: a pair of knights of the Order of the Lambent Shield, in white tabards over full plate armour, sit atop impossibly huge warhorses, overlooking the column with silent menace.

Having heard of both the Sun Blades (whom they have actively avoided) and the Order (which they have never encountered), the elves are surprised by the composition of the forces outside the gates.

“They have paladins checking people in now?” is the light-hearted remark of Eremus. “Perhaps we’ll have to polish their unsightly armour and brush down their horses before we are granted entry, eh, brothers mine?”

Ineluki simply frowns. “Hannigus bade us remain silent. That is always good advice, and advice you need to follow starting right now, cousin.”

As the elves approach within human eyeshot of the gates – a distance significantly shorter than that of their own perception – a group of soldiers ride out to meet them, well before they get close to the column. There are a handful of Sun Blades and one of the knights in this group, and by the time they are within 100 yards of the elven wayfarers, there is a thunderous and crashing noise behind them a short distance away. Another group of riders has emerged from an obscure path in a small copse of trees to approach them from behind.

“Cautious bunch, aren’t they?” Eremus quips. A sidelong look from both of his companions silences him.

The soldiers of the dale approach with speed and organization, and in short order, a rank of the mounted soldiers is found both before and behind the elves. The men do not have weapons drawn, but they seem alert and ready. One Sun Blade with two chevrons on his tabard steps his horse a length beyond his men, and squints down at the elves, now partially obscured in the lengthening shadow of the last light of day. “I’ll be damned…” he says to himself, and turns in his saddle and shouts “Sir Gethart, could you approach please?”

The knight, astride a 19- or 20-hand horse, its gleaming plate as immaculate as his own, canters up. His mount lifts his legs high as it approaches, the massive steel-shod hooves of the thing thundering with each menacing step. “What is it, Sergeant?” he asks.

The Sun Blade sergeant points at the three hedged-in elves and says “Do they not fit a certain description, Sir? Should we…” The knight waves his hand to dismiss the line of inquiry.

“Your intel is out-dated, sergeant.” The big knight replies. He gives the young officer a frightfully disapproving look, then looks down at the elves, who have said not a word. “You lot!” he commands the three exiles in a voice as dauntless as an avalanche. “Queue up behind those wagons. There won’t be any trouble, eh?”

The elves are silent for a moment. They have terrorized humans before. Many of them. They have fought with some very hard, tough men – lumberjacks with arms bigger than the waists of the elves. But these are soldiers. Mounted soldiers, lead by a paladin of Amaunator. And even though that knight’s armour is polished to a vain gleam, up close they can see that a hundred dents have been hammered out of it, and that his great shield has had that many repairs and a dozen fresh dents and scratches that have yet to be mended. This is a fighting man, the first of his kind the elves have seen. With the pause in their response, the knight lifts his visor; his nose is a flattened mess that will never be fixed, and though one eye has been left a foggy ruin from a near-fatal head injury, the other glares at them with the intensity of the sun itself. “Eh?”

The elves shake their heads in response to the man. With a silent hand gesture from the knight, repeated by the Sergeant, the two groups of soldiers thunder away from the elves, heading back to their respective posts, leaving the elves to approach the cue without further intervention.

==Two Inquisitions==

When the elves first stride up to the back of the cue, there isn’t a man within eyeshot that doesn’t stare at them for a time. Three wild-looking elves would draw attention under any circumstances. But these three are known to the soldiers here. The elves see that soldiers are talking amongst themselves, and passing word of these exiles up the lines. With each new listener of this news, the stares are renewed, but usually with new expressions of hatred, or fear, or both. However, as people learn that there are three exiled elves with a fearsome reputation behind them, they turn around and mind their own business. Before long, all present have taken in the sight, and all heads have turned away from the trio. All, that is, save one.

Far up the column, sitting backwards in her seat atop a small wagon, is half-elven woman, neither young nor old. She does not take her eyes off of the exiles for an uncomfortable length of time. Her staring makes everyone between her and the elves noticeably anxious, as they try to ignore her. Eventually, one man standing beside her – evidently known to her – does a double take, as he notices that she is sitting backwards and making something of a scene. He is a good-looking man, well dressed. He looks back at the elves as well, only briefly, and then tries to get the attention of his travelling companion. The elves can see a short discourse between the two, and she turns around.

There are over 100 men in the queue, a dozen wagons, and several dozen horses. On each wagon are scores of crates of supplies. And each person and everything is being inventoried before it passes; every man asked a battery of questions beneath a yellow field-tent, by a team of relentless clerks, every box, barrel and crate opened and inspected. Every name is recorded, every detail about each man’s recent travels, home town, trade, and many questions more. For most humans, this is nearly beyond bearing. It takes hours to get through the gates, and some become agitated with the wait, though any noticeable expression of this is addressed by mounted soldiers who invariably find that ‘all is in order.’ For the elves, the wait is hardly an inconvenience, and they stand silent and still for the duration.

A couple of hours after they arrive at the gates, after the entire merchant column has been meticulously and laboriously admitted, the elves find themselves under the yellow tent, and before a panel of clerks. The clerks are seated on wooden stools behind a desk stacked neatly with many ledgers. There are three clerks, the one in the middle being the oldest and the one asking most of the questions. One of the younger ones frantically records every relevant detail as the examination begins.

“Your names, please, visitors?” He says in a voice that in no way reflects the fact that he knows who they are. He asks this question as though we was talking to the most benign of travellers, and one suspects he would use the same tone if he were talking to a troll.

“Eremus Elderbough.”

“Your home, Mr. Elderbough?”

“None, sir.”

“None?”

“None, sir.”

“Have you recently left a home, or are you habitually itinerant?”

“We are recently exiled, sir, for the murder of filthy humans.”

With this, the routine of examination ends. The scribbling clerk’s hand stops and trembles slightly. Soldiers at the perimeter of the open-sided tent take notice, and turn to face the clerks and elves, their level of awareness and readiness palpably increased. There is a pause, in which the elves perceive a hundred small sounds and movements. The grating sound of metal plates as tensing muscles shift in their armoured shells, the deep draw of breath of the humans nearby through flared nostrils, the equally noticeable absence of exhalation thereafter, and the slight crunch of thick boot-leather as feet are planted firmly.

“We have this...” Ineluki says, his voice piercing the anxious silence, as he hands over the sealed papers to the clerk. The state of tension persists for many long minutes as the clerk meticulously reads through every word of the document. He reads out many details from the document to the trembling scribe, who awkwardly records the information. The main clerk states everything in his monotone fashion, and though many nearby are wracked with tension, he seems completely unaffected by this unusual and threatening group. He carries on his business, asking only a few more questions of the elves, explaining that much of what he needs to know has been explained by Ambassador Miritar.

At length, the clerk explains “You are free to enter Dagger Falls. The conditions of your entry are unusual, and so I will make them clear to you. You are to stay one night only in town, and must stay in the room arranged for you at Quick Axes Inn. You are to leave for Castle Radiance tomorrow, and make your way there as expeditiously as possible, and report directly to the Embassy of Myth Drannor. You will keep this letter from the Ambassador with you at all times, and will produce it when asked for by any member of the military, the clergy of Amaunator, or any other official. You are to abide by our laws, and will be subject to our punishments for your entire stay in our dale. Are these terms understood?”

Soon, the exiles find themselves on the alien streets of the human town, following directions given them by the frightened clerk. They pass down clean streets that are well light with oil lamps. The light is such that they are never concealed in shadow, and their passage down each street is marked by the eyes and mixed expressions of dozens of townsfolk.

Finally, as the great tower of the cathedral reports ten bells, the three elves find themselves outside the doors of a large stone building, the shingle above which displays a pair of crossed axes, and the noise from the taproom beyond a clear indication that they have come to the right place.
