18 Flamerule, 1372 DR
----

The opinions expressed by Brother Ewen Lethgedger of Ilmater in the trumpet two days ago were very strong, to say the least. The message was reviewed by the senior members of the  yesterday in an impromptu meeting to discuss the possibility of legal reprimand for such scandalous and clearly libellous publishing.

It was immediately agreed that the honourable 'Trumpet' would not be held in any way accountable. It is not their place to judge and censor the messages that literate and paying contributors wish to post. It is not their responsibility to do so, even when the contributor wishes to publish that the sky is, in fact, green, and that it will snow for the entire month of Flamerule.

It was further agreed that the Guild would take no formal action against the small church of Ilmater, or even Brother Ewen. It is the mandate of the Guild to see to the health and wholeness-of-body of the people of this Fair City, and we acknowledge that the Faithful of Ilmater, and many other Good Faithes, provide much of the care that is needed in the City. The Guild feels that any punishment felt by these men and women would be experienced by those under their care, and thus, no action will be taken against these parties, despite the paranoid and fictional account of the behaviour of the Honest Guild of Apothecaries and Physicians given by Brother Ewen.

In fact, the Guild would like to take this opportunity to thank the sanctimonious Aide provided by the Faithful of Ilmater, Torm, Tyr and Helm during the thirty-five days of doubt which were visited upon us by the Grey Ague.

The Guild would also like to answer to the claims that Plague Victims were seen inside the Waterdeep School of Anatomy and Medicine. It is true that victims of the plague were brought to the school to examine the sickness, and find its medicinal cure. In fact, Dr. Kahsic did indeed discover the sickness before it became endemic, and found the cure in the incredibly short time of less than one month! It should be to his Credit, rather than his infamy, that he discovered this cure at all, let alone in such a short period of time. His cure saved the lives of fully half of the thousand clearly identified victims in Dock Ward, and prevented the spread of the disease to the numberless thousands of other dwellers of our Fair city. The informed reader can thus see that the School and the Guild are not villains in this account, but modest Saviours who ask no reward or thanks, even in the face of scandalous lies to their detriment.

The Guild is making every effort to see that the Grey Ague and other plagues of countless varieties do not bring their sorrow to our Fair City again.

We Remain your Humble Servants.
:Dr. Unthril Zond, Master Physic
:Guild of Apothecaries and Physicians
