From the Casebook of Lucan Alavandor: The Case of the Missing Twin
Date: 7 May 2025
From: Stephen Robertson
To: Les Blackwell, Todd Burry, Gus Miranda, Scott Mclaren

A quiet moment on the march to Thistle Ridge. Lucan is only vaguely paying attention to his compatriots as they file towards their destinies on this fateful Greengrass night. Around the party, the light of the almost-full moon bathes the woodland in an ethereal silver glow, casting long shadows that carry a sense of foreboding. The air carries the sweet perfume of countless blossoms - hawthorn and wild cherry erupting in clouds of white and pale pink against the darkness. Tiny wildflowers carpet the forest floor in patches of color that seem to shimmer under Selune's watchful eye - blue periwinkles, golden celandine, and the delicate white stars of wood anemones.

The sprites accompanying Chrysalis are in their element, flitting between the blooms and trailing faint luminescence in their wake, clearly reveling in this night of natural power. In every direction, the evidence of winter's retreat is unmistakable - tender green shoots push through the soil, leaf buds unfurl on branches that were bare only a week earlier, and the occasional nightingale's song pierces the quiet with a complex melody. Patches of frost cling stubbornly to shadowed hollows, but even these last bastions of winter seem to be surrendering to the inevitable tide of renewal.

Signs of spring are everywhere to be seen. The end of death, the awakening of life. An eternal cycle. Lucan remembers a tale he heard from one of the old salts he spent his youth with on the docks of Saerloon. "That which is not dead can eternal lie..." He thinks of the ghosts and the sacrifices that Palus engineered in Thistle Ridge. How did the couplet go? "And in strange aeons, even death may die." Death is not the end, clearly - but then, maybe it isn't the beginning either. He stops suddenly, which brings Jesra flitting over to check on him.

Lucan: [his eyes suddenly gleaming] Jesra! That book - Baervindour's tome on the fey. The section on hagspawn! I've just had a revelation about Dorian - Lobelia's supposedly departed twin.

Jesra: [tilts her head sideways] Departed? Mortals use such final words for things that merely change shape or step behind a curtain. What bright spark has caught your eye now, Stone Tree?

Lucan: [not really paying attention] That text that Invictus sent expressly stated that the male offspring are the true Changelings - the actual shape-shifters! And while the mothers typically kill the males - not unsensible from their perspective, I suppose - sometimes they escape in a manner "made possible usually by rival Fey." Those were the exact words.

Jesra: [smiles faintly] A rival's thorn can become another's flower. Or a hidden dagger. Fey rescue fey for reasons like tangled roots - hard for mortals to trace.

Lucan: Precisely! And who is Palus's greatest rival? Her sister, Quercina! The dryad Contessa whose power Palus sought to usurp! [Lucan continues voicing his thoughts as he begins walking more quickly to catch up with the rest of the party.] So, here's the thing: what if Lobelia and Dorian were true twins? I mean - what if they were both hagspawn? Dorian supposedly died in that 1439 sacrifice - the one orchestrated by Palus as 'The Ancient Mother.' But it's only the story about the hunting accident that mentions him by name. And in any case, we only have Abrecia's ghost-word that the sacrifice claimed all three victims.

Jesra: Ghosts remember pain clearly. Sometimes they forget the escape hatch. Or perhaps the cage was locked for all.

Lucan: [dismissively] If there's one thing I know from Saerloon's docks, it's that witnesses see what they expect to see. Believe me. As it happens, I've made use of that fact to some profit. Now, what if Quercina caught wind of her sister's plans? What if she rescued Dorian, snatching away the male Changeling from his mother's attempt to take him off the board before he came into his powers? A true Changeling could easily shift his form and fake his death. [his eyes gleam with the thrill of realization.] He could still be out there!

Jesra: [Tilts her head] A hidden pawn on the board? Or merely a lost seed blown away by the wind? Perhaps. But Stone Tree, the other shifters you chase, the ones whispering in shadows... do they offer you friendship? Or sharp teeth? A rescued Changeling might still bear the mother's chill, or wear the rescuer's gloom. A shape-shifter might forget his own face after a time, especially one born of such... mixed soil.

Lucan: [waves impatiently] Spare me your fey bigotry. I'm speaking of motivation and strategy, my little night-light, not miscegenation. The point is, he could have survived! If she discovered her sister was scheming against her, Quercina had motive. She would have had every reason to spite her - and maybe secure an asset, to boot. Dorian had the means to disappear completely - inherent Changeling abilities, like the book said.

Jesra: (Shrugs delicately, a movement like rustling leaves) Perhaps. Or perhaps the mother did tidy her garden, just as the old words say. A snapped twig is still a snapped twig, even if another tries to graft it elsewhere. Fate finds its way. You say Quercina now is "dark and dangerous," brooding in her mine. A Changeling raised in that shadow... would he bring sunlight, Stone Tree? Or just a different kind of storm?

Lucan: [rolling his eyes] Not that I don't appreciate your fey... perspective, but we investigators prefer facts and logic. A Changeling twin, rescued by a rival Fey, potentially still alive, hidden by his own powers! Quercina is brooding because Palus wronged her! Dorian would naturally be opposed to Palus, too! An enemy of our enemy... [with growing excitement] Once we've wrapped up things in Thistle Ridge, we'll need to speak with Quercina herself. Find that cave she's holed up in. Maybe she'll remember.

Jesra: [Shakes her head slowly, a touch of pity in her eyes] Mortals love straight lines in tangled woods. Be careful the path you think you see isn't just a circle leading back to the start, Stone Tree. Can you be sure the ally you seek isn't just another mask worn by the same old shadows? Some rescues only change the cage. Now, are there any sweet berries left? All this thinking makes one hungry.

Lucan: [with a confident smirk] When have I ever led us astray?

He reaches into his pack and tosses a handful of berries to Jesra. They begin spinning around her head like a halo. She plucks one from the orbit and pops it in her mouth, then flits off to dance in the moonlight with her sisters.
