From the Journal of Beliard Emmarask — 8-10 Flamerule 1480 DR
Source: From the journal of Beliard Emmarask.docx, from DND/ root folder (dated Jan 2011)
Beliard's journal entries covering his arrival in Dagger Falls and the journey to Castle Radiance. He contracts with Sun Blades Lt. Marshall, observes the aftermath of the Winter War, encounters a group of elves, and travels by wagon train with Tyrian and Carpathia.

---

8 Flamerule, 1480
Quick Axes, Dagger Falls

We reached Dagger Falls late this afternoon, and have found an inn for the night. I have contracted with a Lieutenant Marshall, of the Sun Blades, to join a wagon train leaving for Castle Radiance on the morrow. This tiresome journey is nearly complete. In two days' time I will be in my chambers in Boraskyr Tower and may even get a decent night's sleep. That bloody forest. There shouldn't be any reason for the Dales to be falling behind on their lumber shipments. One could build a city simply using the wood you'd get from making the Gond-damned roads passable. We will have to put more pressure on these Dalesmen at the next trade council meeting.

Not that this inn doesn't seem propitious to a well-appointed slumber, but the Silver Lady is full-bosomed tonight, and tongues will be on the wag. My time will be better spent in the taproom, as many of the men here spent their winter on the frontier. I've heard some talk of the Winter War, and it appears that what we've heard in Suzail is true, if tavern tales be any gauge. The war seems to have ended before it even began. Castle Radiance appears to have held against the Shadovar better than we could have expected. I must speak with the ambassador about this, as it goes against our expectations.

A half-dozen elves joined us in the hall an hour ago — or rather, I should say, more correctly, two trios of elves. The older three, two males and a female, possess much more of that eladrin gravitas than the younger group, whom they seem to be watching (safeguarding? In custody of?). The younger three are more sullen than serious, and covered in ridiculous tattoos. None of them look happy to be in this above-ground warren of an inn, but of the lot of them, the younger sprites look positively fearful of these stone walls. Only the she-elf seems unperturbed. I saw her talking to Marshall not long after I did. Will they be joining us? There is a tale here, and not a happy one, I'll warrant. I'll learn more tonight.

My travelling companions, Tyrian and Carpathia, have retired to their separate chambers. I saw Tyrian knocking on the wounded dove's door not ten minutes ago, but she either ignored him or didn't hear him. Such a timorous knock I'd not be surprised if it was the latter. The boy is not what I would have expected, given his history. One might suspect that to travel openly bearing the King's disfavour is the mark of either a simpleton or a braggart, but I find myself warming to what seems to be his genuine earnestness. This in addition to the fact that his connection to Reynard could prove useful in future. It will be a delicate matter to cultivate that connection without taking on the taint of Achre. Fortunately few in these benighted hinterlands will know or care who he is. Maybe the lad will even make a name for himself out here.

And now, I think, a pipe and a pint.


9 Flamerule, 1480

We are camped somewhere on the road to Castle Radiance. The younger elves have joined us, though against their volition, it would seem. They have been walking at the end of the wagon train, doing their level best to look as though they are not with us, though they are never farther than a hundred paces from the last mule. Now they are camped at the edge of the firelight, pretending to be aloof. They have no fire of their own —

"Which elf again?"

"The less effeminate one."

Lieutenant Marshall chuckled, then cleared his throat, and held up a finger to me in gentle admonishment. "No disrespect intended, sir, but these wild elves aren't the same as the civilized eladrin you'll have seen at court in Suzail," he told me. "No fancy manners, no subtlety or subterfuge hereabouts. A fey doesn't like you, he'll be plain about it. Plain as a dagger in your ear. These three seem tame enough — not domesticated, but more like, whipped maybe. I'm told they're being assigned to Ambassador Miritar's — There's nothing I can tell you about any of them — and even if I did know, it would be worth more than my commission to —"


10 Flamerule

(scribbles)

Jackson's Lodge, dying girl,
