...from the private journals of Garth Shanks

----

== 10 Mirtul 1373 ==

Last night was a long one, and indeed little to none of it was on the “to do” list so to speak. However, let me begin at a few days past as some narrative of then will hopefully shed a different light on last night and events that I can guess will unfold as a result thereof.

After the sacking of the Irlingstar villa and the arguably decent crippling of the Aldebarran interests in Waterdeep a rift has began to form between the Eastern Storm and Beljuril and me. The Eastern Storm wants to turn to the Drow immediately favouring a wholesale assault on the Anteos villa sooner rather than later.

Boregar has the blinders square in place and has them permanently trained towards Anteos. He takes on the tone of a bloody lunatic when he speaks of it saying things like, “the Boregar will kill the Drow...alone if needs be....if ya won't help...then just get outta the way...or get to getting killed.” I can only propose that he is under the influence of that senile wandering cleric of Anauroch that Maturin went on about when he returned from that same desert.

Dorian, the Sembian that Maturin and Boregar had in tow when they returned from Anauroch seems to go with Boregar word-for-word. I see that his views are guided by the simple fact that he prefers bravado to normal conversation. I understand that it is the way of those Sembians and it does well for that people as a whole, I think, as I hear that the number of illegitimate children are astoundingly high in that country. If bravado gets the ladies on their backs then all power to it.

Dorian and Boregar are two brilliant birds of one common feather I must say. It would not surprise me if they go and get themselves gutted on the steps of Anteos one night because of one too many cups at the Dripping Dagger. I imagine their conversation going thusly:

::“You know thar Dorian. I’m right sick of waiting to slay them dirty Drow.”

::“Yep. When the Boregar is right he’s right. I’ll bet we can take ‘em ourselves—you and me; just the two of us.”

::“Hey there Dorian. You just might be on to something ya darn dirty Sembian. Yup; the more I think of it right now I dare say I know yer on to something. I say we go show them Drow what for right now.”

::“I’m in if you’re in—after one more drink.”

Maturin is a slightly different story; this I can only describe through his own words as best I can remember…

(I have been going nocturnal for the past few nights with my Jacks to get a pulse of Drow spies in my quarter. This is of course for my own business interests but also to help the Storm’s cause in my own way. After the first night I come back and get something to eat before bed only to have Maturin ambush me and give a sermon on why we should slaughter the darkies wholesale.)

Truth be told Maturin has several good points, and his faith guides him to belt moving speeches that I cannot but believe are the extreme of earnestness. Myself on the other hand could only rouse such passion whilst telling the most bold of lies.

However, Maturin employs the same such passion whilst asking for street directions or ordering a glass of milk at a tavern. I can only be prejudiced towards this too as the tone reminds me all too much of the all-faith friars that would walk the docks in my youth, hollering about the undeniable merits of faith and how “our bones would go a gnashing for countless eternities in the foulest, most unthinkable, perfectly horrible of abysses if we don’t change our ways and come line the temple coffers with our coppers that we obtain who knows where, what what?”

However, I will not dwell on this presently as circumstances have turned out, I think, to mitigate things anyway.

===Morning Overtures from Company Dalael===

Moving along to the morning before last night. Here am I, coming home after another unsuccessful night and what should be in front of Phaulkonmere but a carriage with Issilith Dalael stepping out, brandishing a smirk that I take to be his version of earnest diplomacy. Now Isillith is somewhat of a dandy and is handsome by Drow standards, but I always find it comical seeing the darkies dress themselves as men of conversation as if they can fool one that they are anything but a pack of blackguards.

“Good morning sir,” says he and I greet him the same inviting him into the Vauxborough drawing room. Our parlance is not of length, but is not curt which is useful if nothing else. It turns out that Isillith is taking the role of the Dalael Barrister as far as our deals might go and as a token of good faith a couple of his darkies have already rooted out a Zhent conspirator that may be on my list. He is being taken to Dunvolt Tower by two of my Jack Dashers presently. Not bad thinks I, but want him to get on with his deal anyway. He does and it goes like this: I am to take control of Souh Ward and the Docks while the Dalaels are to have North and Sea Ward. Isillith assures me that the Dalaels are mostly interested in the Nobles of which they already have entrenched influence anyway.

This is the deal I am more or less expecting and is close to the one that I was to suggest myself, but any dullard knows that it is not good for myself by far, and were I to accept it I can’t imagine the Dalaels not thinking that I would break it the next day at the latest. Now I am not a man of negotiating by far, but lying is my game and I would rather tell a believable lie than an unbelievable truth. That being said, I have no plans in keeping any long term deals with the Dalaels as I am sure they are not with me, but such is business I say and just get on with it.

So Isillith and I go on negotiating.

“The South and the Docks are a much smaller piece of the pie than the nobles,” says I.

“But there is quantity and then there is quality my dear Garth. After all, almost all of Waterdeep trade goes through the Dock Ward,” says he.

Now this always annoys me when one intentionally does not catch my meaning when I say it, mostly because I popularized this method of discourse in my youth and never saw the uppercrusts using it until many years later. Isillith knows that his part of the deal is both larger in real-estate and wealth by far. But of course I can not call him on this because I all but asked him to make his line with my blasted metaphor about pieces and pies.

Sometimes I wish these things could go on with frankness rather than guile.

::“What is your deal Dalael?”

::“Well Garth, I offer that I bend you over that barrel right there and roger you until you put up your gold, both present and future and also the fetus of your first daughter unborn so that I and mine may dine on it for supper.”

::That does not sound fair, but I plan to turn any zealot on to your trail anyway and slit your throat myself if I ever have the pleasure of having your back turned to me.”

::“Well it is settled then. Bad day Garth.”

::“Bad day Dalael.”

Anyway, I will stop these musings and get on with it for I have already spent more space on them than the conversation itself.

To Isillith I offer that I will accept the deal if the Encyclopaedae Ocularis Indomitus is turned over to me in addition to the territory. After all Quevin had strongly wanted to do this all of two days earlier. However, to this Isillith quite curtly says that, “the book is no longer being offered as part of the deal.” I can only guess that my dear Quevin has found something in it that he likes after all.

So with this piece of standoff we have our non-start and all I can do is have my boy Isillith head back to his man with the news that the deal is still on the table in good faith and so on good day thank you.

With that Isillith leaves and I decide to put off sleep for a while to go and have a talk with our first prisoner at Dunvolt — the tower that has just been set up for us deputies by Magistrate Lendon, at my request, so that we may fill it with every dirty Zhent conspirator on the Aldebarran Ledger at our leisure.

===The Dunvolt Prisoner===

Before I go I decide to pick up my ally and friend Beljuril because his magics are fare more efficacious in interrogation than my words are. And so I drop by the Temple of Azuth and he and I head over to Dunvolt.

Getting there I see the two Jacks that brought in the prisoner loitering outside. I get a quick debriefing from them before heading in. It turns out that a couple of Drow chased the man through the sewers all the way from North Ward to South Ward before dropping him with bolts right before my Dashers.

Curious thinks I, and even more curious it turns out to be when I see the prisoner — a dwarf from the Cellarers & Plumbers Guild who could have easily been run down by the Drow much earlier.

Anyway, his name is Thebald Rockfist and he gives me the usual song and dance about “not sayin’ nothin” until in a quick bout of inspiration I threaten to shave off his stinking beard right there with my dagger. After that he says all he knows which turns out to not be that much and Beljuril and I have to remove ourselves to strategize.

After returning I ask him a few more questions of no consequence until Beljuril leans over to me and whispers, “his thoughts tell me that he is late for some meeting. Let him go and follow him.”

Being a truly capital plan I decide to do just that, but since it might sound odd to him that we would just let him go I make it sound like we would like him to work for us now and even put him on a good retainer. As it turns out this is partly true I will use him if the need arises, but do not plan on aggressively pursuing the matter.

=== The Moonstar Warehouse ===

I let him go and Beljuril and I follow him to the Moonstar warehouse at the bottom of the Docks. This is an interesting little locale as it is the very place where the whole mischief of the Red Herrings began. It sure seems like ages ago when the bunch of us bumbling sprats hijacked a cart full of sugar cane hiding dark weapons. You know I never did figure out the purpose of those weapons back then, but now I know, for the exploit that ensued turns out to be very similar to the one back then.

Seeing Thebald slip into the warehouse I pull out a scroll of invisibility and slip in after him. Beljuril stays outside telling me to give a signal if anything happens.

I get in all right and find a nice hiding place between two piles of launches and wait. It turns out that quite the rogue’s gallery is here: a few plumbers, some coopers, a handful from the Master Mariner’s guild, a bunch of bodyguards and lackeys for all the various factions, and two Moonstars including the factor and one Helve Moonstar, the patriarch of the family himself. Also there are two dusky skinned foreigners, probably from Sembia or the Dragon Coast.

Everyone there is standing mulling about in anticipation for something and that goes on until the mid-afternoon. Waiting stalked in the shadows has the effect of reminding me that I haven’t had any sleep since the previous day, and I am about to jump out for the fact of it when the event happens.

Behind me rises an elevator and a concealed door opens beneath it revealing an entrance from down below. From there up pops seven watermen with a platform full of crates. They bring the crates to the middle of the Warehouse where old Helve signs for them and then leaves. At this cue the coopers begin to unpack the crates and put them in their concealed barrels.

===Spectres of the Past===

When I see the crates unpacked my adrenaline starts a pumping as the wares turn out to be very evil looking implements of cultish ceremony. I know that once the cargo goes into the barrels I will have no legal authority to search it and will probably lose it in the sewers anyway. With that reason and the fact that I am getting cramps in my knees from hiding for so long I bust out and announce: “That will be enough, you are all under arrest.” If I were to tell my young Garthy self that I would say that someday I would have thought myself mad.

Oh ho thinks I. You’ve certainly got yourself into it this time Garthy old boy. But I do more or less have the law on my side, and I also have trusty Beljuril outside.

Everyone bolts except the two foreigners and wouldn’t you know it Thebald who comes in swinging on my side — best turnaround on retainer that I ever made.

The fighting rages on and it doesn’t take long for me to figure out that these foreigners are cultists, what with the black morning stars and all the whooping and hollering of spells and such. I will say this — it really makes one question why he goes running around like a sociopath arresting people when he is standing there held immobile by magic and being brained nearly dead by a spiked club. However, good Beljuril comes in for me and once he dispels the enchantment I dispatch the cultists.

On examining the corpses Beljuril sees that they belong to the cult of Iyachtu Xvim. At this news I have a hard time at keeping in my emotion, but have to because the traps have just arrived on the scene.

Showing them my badge they have no problem falling all over themselves trying to ingratiate themselves with me and Beljuril. Now these watchmen looked fairly young, but I can’t help but wonder if their fathers would have been some of the coppers that leaned on me to no end during my youthful formative years. Usually these types of status quo positions stay within a family.

===Taking Inventory===

To get rid of the traps for a while I have them escort the Moonstar factor and his two lackeys to Dunvolt. Once Beljuril and I are alone he sets to work searching the bodies and I decide to have a look at some of the stock for I know that there is a lot of the Alderbarran merchandise here. Wouldn’t you know it, but the entire stock seems to be Lantanese trade bars; ding ding. My common sense tells me that this has to go to Dunvolt to keep everything on the up and up, but oh chap — what a haul! I decide to split the difference and grab two bars to keep my pockets company.

Going back to Beljuril he tells me that these cultists have each a ticket to the New Olhem College Cabarat — the social event of the year and nearly impossible to get into. \"Well, there we have it, this is probably a good lead in the Xvimites case,” says he. “And tonight’s entertainment,” says I.

Since it is already the afternoon I steal off at once to get some blasted rest and leave the mopping up to Beljuril and a couple of Jacks. Getting back to Phaulkonmere I find that I really have only a couple of hours to rest so I send for a cleric to see if there is anything he can do for me. Now I appreciate the value of sleep and the body needs it and so on and so forth, but five hundred dragons to alleviate my fatigue seems mighty steep to me. But, when one needs to make up the time he is willing to pay the price so I slip the man the two trade bars I lifted and give him a mum wink.

Right, so our plan is this: clean and mend the cultists’ clothes, disguise ourselves as them and head to the Cabaret. Since we don’t even know their names I am not actually that keen on this so I hum and haw about the whole thing. Beljuril suggests that we just go disguised as the front and hind of a mule which sets us to laughing enough to make me just think, “blast it, let us just do it.” In the end we decide to go disguised as planned, but with full robe and masquerade over top so that we may reveal our cultist garb only when we see what is what at the Cabaret. One last thing to note: on the cultists were gloves of magical storing that would prove useful at the Cabaret since weapons are taboo there.

So Beljuril and I head out in all our finery with a bunch of cash and a handful of gems each that I grabbed from the Irlingstar haul. I figure that we will have to be quite showy with cash at this place and gems are more difficult to liquidate, but just as good as hard coinage to toss at the crowd. Dorn has arranged a fine carriage and is waiting outside with it wearing a top hat and ready to drive us to this fine summer event and presently we are off.

===New Olhem College Cabaret===

Now I certainly can not do the grandness of this event justice so I will not attempt to go into any great depth here. I dare say though that there is not a greater display of bohemian opulence in all of Faerûn.

Arriving at the base of Mount Waterdeep the streets are overflowing with patrons, performers, and onlookers. “This is a far cry from your days on the streets of Dock Ward Garthy my boy,” thinks I. Looking around makes me remember another one of these Cabarets — one year during those dark days of my youth. The bittersweet memory takes only an instant to flash by in my head, having lived through the thing, and before I notice Beljuril and I are bouncing our way into the Cabaret, both of us with a girl on each arm.

Departing into the Cabaret grounds and from my escorts I flip each one a gem to match her eyes. Girls like that kind of touch I’m sure.

The college is already busy with people when we arrive at the proper fashionable time. Beljuril and I decide to split up, but remain in contact through use of our remaining sparkling dust.

While he goes around doing his thing, I take to a bit of exploring and dining on the delicacies offered, all of which are free. After a while I settle on the main foyer to make some contacts for my own purposes.

The main foyer is awash with the theme “A summer in Calimport.” All of the beautiful dark skinned girls are there dressed as Calishites. Some of the goers that caught wind of the theme beforehand have also come dressed for the part. I give an out loud chuckle to some upper-crust hag that is prancing around exclaiming, “Oh my, I am the very picture of a Calishite slave girl, am I not?” She gives me a sour look and shuts up about it. That of course is one small affectation in the sea of despicable nobles here, and I only mention that one because it is particularly amusing to me.

So here I am going around trying to find out this and that, all the while squeezing the tits of the odd maiden.

“Do I know you?”

“Oh I’m sorry. I thought you were my sweetheart.”

Much fun this is, but also serves a purpose. People that see you wandering around at ease will be more likely to be at ease with you themselves and not think that you are a Magister or someone else that endeavours to stagnate the flow of society. And if a girl gets uppity at her tits being squeezed then I drop a gem between them and everyone is happy.

To the end of my business I manage to make contact with a moneychanger that has better rates than my current one. I am sitting on a pile of Zhent coin that I would prefer not cost me a twenty five percent premium to exchange. I would melt the stuff down myself and sell it as ingots, but the problem with coinage is so much of it is clipped that melting it down produces an unpleasing return.

I have also met a Thayvian man that says he has quite an extensive catalogue of alchemical mixtures — poisons and drugs is the undertone here. I am particularly interested in drugs that will aid in interrogation and one that I have heard eliminates fatigue. It apparently has to be entered into the bloodstream by a needle type device and may leave unsightly marks on the arm, but my man also says that it can be shot in between the toes or through the tear duct of the eye with little adverse cosmetic effect. After the ungodly amount that the church charges for their blessings I’ll take the chance.

The last piece of information I get is a continual buzz about one of the plays tonight known as the Lady Mamoril. I usually don’t go in for the theatre unless it deals in fornication or murder, but the pulse for this play is so strong that I decide to check it out.

=== The Lady Mamoril Massacre===

I get to the play too late to grab a seat so I end up standing at the rear of the amphitheatre. The play is a musical starring one Lady Avaea who is strikingly beautiful. The band plays up on the stage dressed as ghosts as she is. During the climax she is bawling about murdering her husband who fornicated on her or some such thing — not quite what I had in mind as a proper presentation of the subject matter. She floats up apiece to sing the final song and then it all happens.

I feel that strange wash of a compulsion come over me, but it does not affect me. It does seem to affect most of the crowd as they seem to be staring at her as zombies and some of them even slump over in their seats.

At this point the band falls to the stage floor and three black plated cultists step through pillars from stage back to stage center. They are unmistakably Xvimites.

I alert Beljuril and start making my way to the stage. Meanwhile the Xvimites are belting out fanatical prayers and slaying people left right and center. And everyone in the audience seems to be oblivious to it all because the little bitch star of the play is hypnotising them.

By the time I and Beljuril get to the stage the remaining cast of the play lay dead and one of the Xvimites that I take to be the leader is now fifteen feet tall and preaching, “behold the power of Iyachtu Xvim” as he takes out piles of guards with each of his swings.

I set to work helping the guards on the ground while Beljuril takes care of silencing the bitch so that the crowd may be freed from her enchantment and give us a bloody hand—they don’t for the most part, and instead yell like crazed gibberlings and make haste out of the amphitheatre.

Beljuril has the bitch routed, while I am on the route myself and then finally the dean of the college steps in do something. He is completely impotent and the giant Xvimite bounds after him taking out the odd remaining customer with each five row long stride.

I join Beljuril to go at the bitch that is now floating into the orchestra pit in gaseous form when the other two Xvimites take off after the boss. The bitch begs for mercy which I regret to say I take and Beljuril and I make to tie her up. After that Beljuril tears off after the Xvimites and I stay to watch the bitch.

In time Beljuril comes back and briefs me on what went on. The dean of the college is a mushy pulp in the foyer of his college and the Xvimites are marauding through the streets. They are so engorged on all of the people that they have slain that they are unstoppable for a time and the watch wizards are pretty much powerless.

=== Confrontation with Quellar Dalael ===
thumb|300px
At length Beljuril and I make it back home with our prisoner well past midnight. Both of us are damn near spent and well earned I might add. We get to licking our wounds and deciding what to do with our prisoner when one of my Jacks busts in and exclaims that Quellar is storming down the street.

By the description of Quellar’s disposition it seems as though this is going to be bad, but I can’t for the life of me divine what his problem might be.

I get Dorn to watch the prisoner and Beljuril, I, and a handful of Jacks go out to meet Quellar. Our conversation goes something like this:

“Queller, to what do I owe this visit?”

“You have broken the deal that we had when you attacked the Moonstars. For this I will teach you a lesson.”

“Wait a minute now; some one has lied to...\"

My sentence is cut off by his rapier slashing across my chest and temporarily deflating the lungs that I was employing to give wind to my conversation. Now it is plain and clear to anyone there that Quellar is more than a match for me by far. I am also aware of this fact, but I take to fighting like a madman, and for good reason.

If one of the Dalaels is able to walk right up to my home and take a slash at me without immediate retaliation then what do I have? My men will know that I have no power and worse, so will the Dalaels. They will then have the entire city, game over.

Now I think about it like this after the fact, but at the time my reasoning was more along the lines that I was filled with complete indignant rage that one of the Dalaels would come and attack me in front of my house, and under the pretence of my error. And because of this I am sorry to say I recklessly threw myself and my Jacks at him.

Now I have more men it is true, but he has a cruel strike and an even crueller blade which certainly matches his brand of justice. And so our little duel rages on. I knick at him with each of my blows, and he near kills me with each of his while Beljuril keeps me on my feet as best he can. Near the end of the thing plenty of my Jacks are dead and Quellar and I are both near dead ourselves.

Finally Quellar gets his satisfaction. I am dead, my soul is swimming around the abyss that I knew I would end up in, and I am bargaining with some damned deuce for my life.

“This is it Garthy my boy,” says he.

“This is it, what? No my dear fellow, you must have mistaken me for some whore’s miscarriage. She is laying beside me in my own bed just now while I am sleeping. You are probably just flummoxed from a hard night of drinking virgin’s blood or something along those lines, yes?” says I in return.

“Oh no I’m afraid not. You cannot bluff me out Garthy my boy. I am The Master of Bluffs you see? Hard luck that. I was just about to go off shift too and you would have been under The Master of Discord, and quite frankly she’s a pushover.”

“No. I can’t go now. I still have a task to do. A task you see? I need just one more chance.”

“A task eh? Well then now. What are you willing to pay for that chance?”

Well, I wake up from my dream in my bed. Dorn had arrived on the scene shortly after my fall and sued for peace. Unfortunately Beljuril did not quite hear him and disemboweled Quellar on the spot, having been polymorphed into a troll at the time. After that my allies took me to this bed and here I lie. Oh yes, and our prisoner escaped during the commotion.
