...from the journals of Garth Shanks

----

== 11 Eleasias 1372 ==

As I write this journal here I sit at my dressing table putting on one of countless disguises. However this time is different. This time I shall not be changing back to Garth Shanks again.

Although the mission to Neverwinter was a success I’m afraid that the Company of the Red Herring is dissolving before my eyes. Jafar has joined the enemy, Rufus was killed during the Neverwinter mission, and Rychel and Esperel have requested retirement from the company. I also fear that the Dalelands mission has come to a terrible end and I must assume the worst. On top of this none of the associate members have come on to the company all complaining of the other member’s greed in the distribution of mission treasure.

Despite my efforts to keep the company together it has torn itself apart and I can only look at this as my own failure. Why did I allow Esperel’s greed and paranoia to continue on with us for so long? Why did I not look more closely at Jafar when he set eyes on that Beholder staff? And how him and Beljuril argued over it; I can only speculate what effect it had on the boy mage. What images do those devices paint in the heads of adepts? Now Beljuril has brought another one of those insidious staffs back from Neverwinter. 

What will become of this?

How did I lose site of what I originally wanted to fight for? How did I let my only and best childhood friend Tomas be butchered at the hands of Iyachtu Xvim’s cult and the insidious Drow. How was I so easily fooled by the Zhent Thagdul?

Now only Beljuril and I are all that remains of the Red Herrings. Alas my heart must still trust my companion, but the two of us cannot support the company alone. So now I must look forward to the job of paying off the retired members and splitting the remaining assets of the company between Beljuril and myself. And when this task has been completed only this Red Herrings cloak that I hold in my hands will remain of the failed company.

Well, I’ll place this cloak in the bottom of my trunk and set to work at this task that must be done.

== 12 Eleasias 1372 ==

I can only write that I am feeling grim. I woke up about one hour before dawn in a cold sweat panting as if I was affected by a bad dream of some sort. However, I am unable to remember what it was.

Unable to sleep I set to the task of boarding up the insides of the house. The old Phaulkonmere residence is relatively secure but I wish for it to look abandoned so that I may dwell here alone as I please.

Unable to find any decent wood I went out into the night, broke into a carpenter’s near by, and helped myself to the planks for my task. It took me several trips, and in the end I managed to wake up an old shopkeeper who tried to chase me out with a sharp tool. I was easily quicker than him and knocked him out with the back of my dagger.

With my supplies in hand I spent the rest of the night nailing planks to every window in the house from bottom to top. And oh what a cruel trick luck played on me! There I stood in the attic that used to belong to the foul Jafar with one plank left and there was the sun just starting to rise an poke its searching fingers into my face through too much window to cover.

I stood there in the attic looking from one window to the next. There the sun was trapping me with its cruel glance. Somehow I knew that I must block those windows. Somehow I knew that I mustn’t let the sun in at all.

I quickly ran down to the basement and threw open a crate that held the many mundane weapons that the company had accumulated. I flung swords and daggers aside and grabbed myself an axe that was at the bottom of the crate. I ran as fast as I could to the first floor until I came upon the Phaulkonmere dining table. There I stood panting with the axe held aloft over my head.

Here I write this journal entry sitting in a chair in my attic. One quarter of the once grand table is blocking one window, one quarter is blocking the other, and the final half is lying on the floor overturned. The windows are patched up mostly, but I can still see a needle of light poking through the top…

== 15 Eleasias 1372 ==

Three nights have passed. I awoke on the night of the 12th as the last ray of sun was poking through my imperfect patch and then fell sleep again only moments later to my best estimation.

This happened again as the sun was rising and again for the next two nights until I awoke too hungry to fall asleep again. At this time I cleaned myself up as best I could and went to the Thirsty Throat to eat half a meal.

I saw Esperel there, but did not approach him. I hope that he did not notice me.

== 1 Eleint 1373 ==

So my days have been quite routine since I last wrote. I have been searching out the remaining members to cash them out of the company, but mostly I stay in the attic. I have bought a store of rations that are apparently used for lengthy journeys into the Underdark so that I don’t have to go out to eat.

I still have not been able to remember any of my dreams, but I’m sure that this is of no importance.

I saw Beljuril, but did not bring up the staff. I do not have the courage to deal with this.

== 11 Eleint 1372 ==

Well, things have changed. At least as I read my past journal entries I cannot believe that I am the one who even wrote them! In only a ride my life has gone from shambles to being back on track again. Let me recount the events as best as I can remember, but even now my head is still spinning.

On the 2nd of Eleint Beljuril showed up in my attic. He said that he wanted to deal with the business of finalizing the company and of the staff that he brought back from Neverwinter.

At the mere mention of the staff I only felt like shrinking back from its captor. What did Beljuril have in store for me? I thought as I backed myself away from him. I managed to blurt out “You take the staff; just let me keep this place.” But to that statement Beljuril had the exact opposite reaction of what I had expected all along.

“My friend, I do not want the staff. I think we need to decide who must possess it,” said he.

And to this statement I started to feel normal again. Well, not exactly; at first all I could do is look at Beljuril in pure bewilderment. But then finally I broke into laughter as warm tears trickled down the sides of my face. I almost fell over my own words apologizing to Beljuril, exclaiming that I was a fool for ever doubting him.

Eventually we decided to make a pact between us to keep the staff safe until we can find what part it seems to play in this puzzle or to destroy it outright if we find the opportunity.

Over the next few days Beljuril and I got together for evening meals and spoke of adventures past all the while dreaming of adventures yet to come. But this was not the end of the events of my most peculiar tenday.

Over one of our meals Esperel showed up at our table. He sat himself down and paused for a moment as if he was expecting us to order him a drink. Beljuril obliged him with some small bitter that I’ve never heard of, but I’m sure elves must drink all the time. After a few sips of his drink Esperel  looked to me and spoke that there were people looking for me. And then he said, “But since our former business dealings had come to a close that it would cost me five hundred gold to find out who it was.” To this I had to take a mouthful of soup to prevent myself from laughing. I could tell the information was not this useful, but perhaps Esperel has heard of my past few weeks and thought that he could make some easy money. I turned him down with a thinly veiled politeness and to that he left.

Since I am no novice at finding out the word on the street I decided to spend the next few days seeing what was up with this information. And once I started looking the information was there to find. I quickly came up with some aliases and disguises to go with and started to make contact with these people. And so Garth Shanks’ barrister, Garth Shanks’ fence, Garth Shanks’ bodyguard, and Garth Shanks’ tailor started meeting with people at various locations around Waterdeep.

It turned out that these people, youths mostly, had heard about the Red Herrings and were all wanting to join. For some reason I was generally thought of as the organizer of this company and by default the leader. Of course this was a bittersweet surprise; the company had been dissolved and I did not want to reinstate it because I knew that it would fail again. However, an idea began to hatch in my mind and it was because of this that I invited all of these people to the former headquarters for the night of the 10th.
Sixteen people in all showed up at my place. I left the font door open and they all piled in. I sat in the shadows of the stairs to the second floor for several minutes just watching these people. I must say that I was very nervous and almost slipped out through the courtyard. Alas I knew that I couldn’t and finally went to greet them.

At first some of the people were surprised because I don’t think that they even knew what I looked like! After I had greeted everyone individually I settled at the head of the room and everyone hushed. This is what I said:

“You have all come here this night to join the Company of the Red Herrings. The Company of the Red Herrings is no more. Many of the former members are dead, some shaken by the experience and retired for ever, and one left in treachery.

This is the reality.

However, this was the past. This was the past, and it shan’t be the future.

I will not start a company like the Red Herrings again for it shall fail again.

However, I can offer you a place here if you choose to follow me, but you must follow me absolutely. Why should you do this? I can offer you much and I will begin to lay it out for you.

I have come to find that my enemies have many resources. It is these resources that we will attack. This serves two goals: first to take away the means that further our enemies’ ends and second to fuel the means towards our own ends. We will not attack our enemies outright, but rather attack their lifeblood.

To do this we must first gain control of the information in the city. We must know where our threats are and we must know how to defeat them. I wish to have exclusive access to this information. Our unseen army will be the sole proprietors of information in Waterdeep. To aid this end we will gather information and spread misinformation in equal measures.

This is my plan plain and simple. Now, follow me or leave. The choice is yours.”

At that the room stood in silence. I was half expecting everyone in the room to leave in disgust, but no one left that night. And that is how my unseen army was built.

I spent the rest of the week rebuilding the headquarters and taking stalk of everyone’s strengths and weaknesses. My men are definitely raw, but there is not one of them who doesn’t have heart.

===Clockwise===

This story is not quite over yet. There is still one part left to tell that I will try my best to explain.

Two days after that faithful meeting I came downstairs to find a dwarf in my drawing room tinkering with the lock on my front door from the inside. My usual reaction would have been to slide my dagger between the intruder’s shoulder blades, but for some reason I was intrigued by this person.

“Excuse me sir I think you are in the wrong premises,\" said I, to which he replied, “No I don’t think so, now leave me alone, can’t you see I’m working!”

“No I think that you are not in the right place, and if you don’t leave right now I’m afraid that I’m going to have to remove you myself.” To this answer the dwarf sighed deeply and snapped, “Fine! I was done anyway you impatient scoundrel.” To this he produced a key and flung it to me and then promptly left.

Interestingly he seemed to have replaced the locks on the front door with locks of much higher quality. What was this?

The next day I came down to find he dwarf again fixing the locks to the courtyard doors. Now to this I decided to be more forceful and produced my dagger beneath his throat.

“By stone son, don’t you recognize me? Sheath your dagger right this minute!”

I certainly didn’t recognize him, but for some reason he seemed more familiar. I backed off and asked, “Who are you?”
“Why I’m Dorn Clockwise and your Mina Vauxbourough’s son, Garth. I knew your mother and told her that I’d keep an eye on you if you ever needed it.”

“But my mother died ten years ago.”

“Bah! What’s ten years to a dwarf! Besides you never seemed like you needed help before. Now you have started on a venture that needs help.”

To this I started to laugh. I still couldn’t quite remember who this person was, but I started to get quick memory flashes of a dwarf bouncing me on his knee when I was very young.

After that and some lengthy discussion Dorn joined me as my right-hand man. He moved his shop into the lower floor of the headquarters’ tower. Clockwise locks it is called. It should be useful.

=== The Unseen Army ===

I have organized my unseen army into two branches.

The Rooken Network are the information gatherers. They organize the many drop points around the city and report back anything out of the ordinary. They are also responsible for spreading misinformation that is dispatched from headquarters. I am always careful to feed misinformation to different subsets of the network so that I can monitor it as a control when it comes back to me.

The Jack Dashers are the men of action and field agents of the army. Any missions that may arise are carried out by these men. Since I have the most experience in this area I am the chief Dasher. Currently the Jack Dashers accompany other adventurers on side missions as we sell information that I don’t find directly useful to my goals.

I have set the headquarters up as a legitimate business called Vauxbourough’s Special Ventures Company and Guild. The company is so named after my mother, Selûne guard her soul.

=== The Goals of the Unseen Army ===

I often wonder if the Unseen Army is really different from the Red Herrings. There is one chief difference that gives me hope though. Although the army accumulates wealth, this is a means to an end rather than the end itself as with the old company. What are my goals?

*1.	To monitor the dangerous population of Drow in Waterdeep. 
::As Dorn and I discuss my old adventures I come to realize that the Drow were more of a threat than I had originally thought. They were building their power while Yarkul and Thagdul (and we) were fighting each other. Now they may be the strongest party.
*2.	To destroy the cult of Xvim.
::I cannot get the images of below the Wavesilver Villa out of my mind. The Xvimites must fall from their lowest to their highest ranks. I have any information regarding this cult be sent straight to me.
*3.	To hunt down Jafar and Thagdul.
::I have a strong distaste for treachery like this. Jafar especially is a marked man.
*4.	To set my poor friend’s soul free so that he may rest finally and forever. 
::Tomas, you will be set free. That I promise you friend.

== 1 Marpenoth 1372 ==

I can say that the unseen army is fully established in Waterdeep at this time. The group almost seems to run itself. Dorn does most of the clerical work while I go around Waterdeep making sure that everything is running smoothly out in the field.

I know though that Waterdeep is moving through a quiet season right now as anything that lives does. I am constantly telling my men not to get a false sense of security because things will get worse.

Things will get worse, but all I can do is wait and be prepared. This time though, I know that I will be.
