[PC Attribution: Garth Shanks (Todd Burry)]
[RAW - UNEDITED AND UNREVIEWED - extracted by automated process, not yet verified for accuracy or completeness]

Trials of Leadership;
The days of Garth Shanks after the Chessenta Ward Purgation.
Us Dock Ward Boys have to stick together!
Like a bucket of cold water across the face, those words are to you.
You are standing in a newly-acquired small warehouse close to Vauxboroughs, sitting on a crate, just sort of lackadaisically flipping through an old ledger, when you hear those words, which bring you immediately out of your sombre quietude.
Pardon, Max
you say to your Jack Dasher who just spoke those words.
What was that you were saying?
Your words and demeanour do not betray your surge of emotion at that utterance.
Well, Master Shanks, Sir
the lad of 16 or 17 winters (he isn
t sure himself) stammers.
Me and Will here, we got into a bit of a tussle last night, Sir. Will, well, he put an amorous hand on some other chaps girl, you see
I didn
t know she was spoke for!
retorts Will, red in the face.
Well, why do you think that other chap had his hand on her arse when you squeezed it?
the little rogue returns with a smile, a wink and a jab to the shoulder of his companion.
You nearly grabbed his hand!
He is about to chuckle, but he sees that you are a little cross with him, and he changes his tone immediately.
Well, Master Shanks, Sir
Max begins to plead to you.
I know you always say
t go getting into any scrapes that can be avoided
and all, but, it
s like this; that jealous brute looked every bit capable of standing Will on his head, so I stepped in, Sir.
s like you say;
sometimes you don
t look for mischief, but mischief looks for you, and you damned well better know when it
s seeking you out
, and you also say
stick to your mates, boys; they are all you have
Max continues to stammer and plead.
And, well, Master Shanks, Sir, Will and I come up together, down on Dock Street, and well, I was sticking up for my mate, like you says, Master Shanks, Sir!
The boy hangs his head, and folds his arms behind his back.
Dock Street. How many fights did you and Tomas get into down there? It is hard to remember them all, but it isn
t hard to remember one brief flogging you gave to a pair of drunken wagoners who were hauling crates filled with sugar cane.
Properly done, then, Max
is your verdict.
Properly done, lads. Don
t look for a reason to bare your teeth in this town, but don
t look away from any villain, who bares his teeth at you, I say. Carry on, men.
Not a hint of emotion. You surprised even yourself with that bit of control. Those boys aren
t much younger than you and Tomas where when it all started
Nightmares are something you have learned to live with. The trick is knowing what is real and what isn
t when you wake up. You have your fill of things to remember in your sleep that would terrify most people into a head of grey hair. Scrapes with the ubiquitous drow you have to remember in spades; for many people, the drow are creatures that your mother warns you of, to get you to bed, or inside at a decent hour. For you, they are black-skinned devils to be fought with blades, guile and words. The bladed conflicts are the most terrifying to remember; half the time you can
t see anything, as they shroud everything in pitch blackness to match their cursed flesh and hateful hearts. They are fast and quiet and poison you whenever they get the chance. Then the devils come right to your door to talk business.
Your fight with Quellar, Secondboy of House Dalael, permeated your dreams until your visit to the Soorenar Street Academy in Little Chessenta. Quellar was like something out of a bad dream; he strode up to you, hate in his eyes, his intentions clear, and no amount of words could keep him at bay. That is like many of your nightmares; no one will listen to you, or you find yourself unable to speak for some reason, and you feel helpless without use of your voice.
Up Quellar strode to you, his rapier in hand, and his intent worn clear on his face. The only thing worse than that unbreakable intent and deliberate approach was the sting of his blade. That blade is also a nightmare of the waking world. It found its mark every time, and kept you on your heels continuously. And as if to mock you, when the blade had done its work, he kicked you, ungracefully at that, in your mid section, sending you to your knees.
The nightmare got worse, just then. Your men started dying around you, and you knew that you had to get back up, despite the offer of Quellar; stay down, burn your pride, and stay the hell out of my family
s business. Not in front of your men would you lose face, and so you got back onto your feet.
Again, the surreal speed of the infamous duellist was more than you could hope to face. Again, his blade bit into you, and again you were sent to the cobblestones, right in front of Vauxboroughs, after Quellar smashed his forehead into your nose. His intent was clear again; I am going to teach you a lesson, and show you who is boss, and if you just stay down, you will live.
But, you got up again. Quellar pulled a second blade at that point, and started massacring your men, and when you stepped up to fight, that devilish rapier found your neck, and the last thing you remember is the feeling of that thing withdrawing from your neck as you fell backwards, watching in disbelief as the blade seemed to grow longer, and Quellars murderous hand grow distant.
Though it was a terrible fight, and one that should have left you dead, you breathe today, thanks to the friendship of Beljuril. Today, Quellar lies dead, and only the memory of him can bother you now.
But there are unresolved nightmares in your head; stories that have not found the villain slain, and old Garthy free of worry. What happened in that dank pit under the Wavesilver Villa will not cease plaguing your dreams until you have seen the soul of your childhood friend to a proper home, free of the torments that Xvim is certainly exposing him to.
And now there is the most recent nightmare, which you inherited from the Soorenar Street Academy in Little Chessenta. Though you didn
t realize it until too late, Steele had delivered you, himself and Rychel to the waiting maws of a host of Vampires, lead by Romulus, a Chessentan Monk and Vampire himself.
It was only a matter of seconds, after entering the doors of the fighting school, that you were caught between two of the blood sucking fiends. The horror of that encounter is almost too much to bear, for rarely have you felt that helpless. Indeed, only your match against Quellar rivals the feeling of helplessness you experienced there, and the two encounters nearly had the same outcome.
The two monsters took hold of you; one had both arms wrapped around your chest, from behind, and the other held one of your legs and arms from in front. They hauled you up off your feet, and began to tear mercilessly at you. For the first time in your career, the fight that ensued seemed to happen in a realm all on its own; what your friends were doing to save themselves you couldn
t say. Your whole world was these two monsters that were tearing enormous hunks of flesh from you, and drinking in your blood, while you fought back with all the efficacy of a child fending off a pair of ogres.
They held you as though you were but a rag doll in their vice-like grips. Their teeth were razor sharp, and found a tender and sanguineous spot with every attack. Their strength and speed were also matched by martial prowess; these men in life would have been formidable grapplers. In undeath, they were unbeatable. By you at any rate.
In the end, you made it out of there, as your group made a fully fledged retreat, leaving not one monster slain, and Romulus looking from his doorstep with something of a knowing smile on his face.
You escaped with your life that day, but another part of your soul has been cashed in.
Say what you will about Faith Healing, and listen to all the priests and clerics of the Realms if you will. The prayers that they chant to bring blood back into your body, and restore your health just don
t feel like a week of bed rest. After the Lathanderites brought you back to health, you just didn
t have
something
you needed to go back after those vampires.
Perhaps you weren
t in the health that the Priests said you were. Perhaps you just lost your nerve. There is no prayer to get your courage back from the bellies of those partially-sated monsters that dined on you, is there? Hell, there might be, but it wasn
t cast on you.
And so, as Rychel and Steele planned for another pass at the Academy, and another chance to do in Romulus, you declined.
I am still not all the Garthy I need to be to face those horrors, Rychel
you protested. Good old Rychel. He will understand. He won
t press me. But I won
t fool him.
You look like you need more time to recover. We
ll let you know what happens. Take care, Garth
and you could see many things on his face. Pity, for starters. He knows what you went through, and always takes on responsibility for what happens to his friends in battle. Always has. He was old at this business when you were young, and will probably always think of you as the miscreant he helped out from time to time, in the past.
But there was also knowing in his face. He knows, or thinks he knows, that you are indeed physically fit for the task at hand. But, good old Rychel doesn
t press the case. Steele would have called you a coward. Rychel just rolls with the punches.
There was one more thing on his face, though, and you nearly got up and put on your rig when you saw it; despair. Rychel is worried, and you heard from Steele that he had quite a battle with Romulus, head-to-head, and couldn
t land a blow. When the fisticuffs turned to a battle of mobility, there too, Rychel met his match. Romulus was faster and more agile. Rychel could not escape him. And in a struggle of holds and pins, you learned that Romulus made the legendary Rychel seem a child wrestling with his father, though you have seen Rychel apprehend men hundreds of pounds heavier than he. Rychel isn
t sure he can beat this monster.
And you aren
t sure you can face them; your friends or your enemies. Tough times, these.
News of your friend
s success came back to you bits at a time, as it unfolded. Rychel made a very public display of pitching the staked monsters into the harbour, destroying them outright. First he destroyed the printer, the very monster who published the pamphlets that started it all.
Then, he brought 3 more of the monsters, including the ones that had nearly taken your life, to the harbour to meet their fate as well. A crowd of hundreds saw him and Steele pitch the monsters into the harbour.
What followed was a little unexpected; the two feuding faiths of Lathander in the City finally put aside their differences, after these events. Apparently, a highly-ranked cleric from each temple assisted Steele and Rychel, and both died in the Lair of those monsters.
What didn
happen was this; Romulus was not destroyed. Veritas, the Vampire that you all suspect as some sort of mastermind was not found. In reality, only a few Vampiric pawns were taken in this struggle. The back row was still all in play.
Vampires make such devious adversaries.
Not long after the Purgation of Chessenta Ward, as the Daily Trumpet called it, you started to have trouble. Many of your Jack Dashers reported that men were following them, and that they were extraordinarily fast and adept at stealth and evasion. Immediately you thought that more vampiric pawns were keeping tabs on you and your men. Perhaps even some of the more powerful ones were doing some of this legwork. How long does it take for a vampire to create a suitably skilled and reliable vampiric servant, anyway?
The real trouble started when Max and Will didn
t return from a brief and easy mission in Castle Ward. You were going to cancel it too. Just because your gut told you. You sensed that something might happen, but decided not to act like a paranoid and superstitious mother. But then, they never came back.
The Rooken Network turned up nothing at first. But then, 3 days later, they heard reports that a vampire had killed a burly young man and his girlfriend at a tavern in dock ward, and that the vampire fit the description of Max. You weren
t long putting together the facts; same bar, same couple that you discussed a few days ago.
For the next 2 nights, the Rooken network reported two more attacks by the same Vampiric Max. This is a boy who knows too much about your organization, you were thinking. And he is killing wantonly. You had to put an end to this, but you knew that Romulus probably knew you would think this way. It had to be a trap. Either that or Max got stupid in his undeath. He knew a few places where he could find a drifter or other person who wouldn
t be missed, and sure enough he could get rid of a body. This was just too obvious.
You pondered your course of action a day too long. Will turned up in the middle of the night, with one of your Rooken network on his shoulder. He heaved the bloody body into the courtyard, and then leapt over the walls and inside himself. He fought off your watch with the skill and grace of a vampire, and when you went to face him, he made off as a cloud of green vapour. You haven
t seen him since, but heard his parting, ghostly words as he vanished down a sewer grate;
Romulus is going to recruit from your ranks, Garth. Maybe even you will be recruited!
Trouble, that. Vampires are such devious adversaries, aren
t they?
With a dead Rooken in your courtyard, you realized that your operation was seriously compromised. What might this man have told them? With an inspection of his body, he tells you that he was tortured most brutally, before he was drained of blood from two separate sets of teeth. It wasn
t hard to imagine who those teeth belonged to. It wasn
t hard to imagine him spilling his guts, too. Why, Steele himself could not resist the powerful mind of Romulus. What did this man tell them?
It was time to reel in your network. You took your men off the streets, Dashers and Rooken alike. They were all compromised. This made you think about reorganization. That is for later, though.
You organized a simple, solitary mission; to bring in Max and Will, and put an end, at least, to their doings. It was time to face your fears, and why not start with a pair that you had some advantage over? You knew these boys well in life, and hedged a bet that they would be haunting their old neighbourhood, down on Dock Street.
With a little assistance from your man, Kennyth, you procured a scroll that would take some of the alacrity out of the undead, and prevent their turning to vapour. You also did quite a bit of research on your adversaries in the Font of Knowledge, and Kennyth was only too happy to help. You wanted every edge you could attain, on these undead horrors, friends and comrades though they were.
You brought a few of your senior Dashers with you, and staked the place out. You weren
t long in finding Max, who was prowling the Docks looking for a drunken sailor or wayward whore to feast on. He was straddling just such a victim when your men spotted him. You arrived too late to save the homeless girl, but did make an organized and successful apprehension of the monster. With the magic of the scroll to diminish his powers and means of escape, you had your men hold him in place.
On a fishy-smelling, greasy dock jutting out into the harbour that you have looked out over, every day of your life, Max found his end. The moon was full, and lit the grisly scene all too well. The bloody body of the dead girl, the blood soaked boy who you took under your wing struggling against your other recruits, who could not look their former mate in the face. The stake in your hand. This was going to be tough, you knew, but it got tougher;
Master Garth, Sir!
Max pleaded in his now diabolical sounding, unearthly voice.
I don
t mean no harm to you. I am just doing what I am told by my new boss. Just like I did for you!
You are murdering people, and are likely involved in the death of my own men, now. I have to do this!
For a moment, he relaxed, and seemed to accept his fate. He then pleaded in the human voice that you had come to know;
Garth; you and me came up in this same place! Look around you! We both ran and robbed and fought on these tough docks and along Dock Street. We both went on to better things. Spare me!
I cannot. You are a monster.
No emotion shown, though you were being ripped apart inside. This monster is compromising your organization, and it could be that you have to stake more of your boys if you don
t end this; maybe even the three holding Max.
Come on boss. We Dock Ward boys have to stick together!
he pleaded, a tear in his eye. There was something in his face that you barely noticed, and noticed too late.
You lost your composure at that utterance. So many things went through your head in that instant, that you couldn
t consciously assess them all. But in your line of work, you learn to trust the calculations of your subconscious, and you acted. You brought the stake up, and thrust it into the boy
s heart, the whole time shouting
no no no
though you know this only because you have overheard the men that were there whispering this to the other men. You don
t remember saying anything. What you remember is this;
Max convulsed, as you might expect, when you drove that stake into his chest. He sobbed for a moment, and clawed helplessly at it, as his strength drained. Your three boys put him down on the dock gingerly. Max spat some blood to the side, and raised his head, to look up at his chest at the violating and life-ending wood protruding there from, and then up at you. He gave a short shake of his head, as if to say
what a loss
and then laid back. To die. His body gave the throes that you have seen in many slain foes and friends, the throes that you go through when life escapes you at last. Then you nearly fainted. The blood drained from your face as surely as you had been drained by a pair of vampires.
You walked over the prostrate form of the slain boy. You picked him up reluctantly. There was only one thing left to do; one last action that would either dispel the doubt growing in your brain like wild weed, or take your wits from you completely. If the body dissolves
You cast the boy into the harbour. The body floated there for a moment, then began its descent. For long moments you watched the whole, undissolving body sink into the Water Deep; the body of a recently killed boy, who never spent a day in the world between life and death. What new treachery is this? What have I done?
Vampires are such devious adversaries.
This is what you explained to Rychel when he came by the next day. You hadn
t slept the whole night, and confined yourself to your ground-floor office, when you heard Rychel come in, and talk with Dorn outside your door.
Garth is a little
busy
well
things aren
t good, Rychel.
Said Dorn after exchanging salutations.
You interrupted Dorn by opening the door, and motioning to Rychel.
I will update Mr. Voordan on current matters myself, Mr. Clockwise.
Rychel looks like you feel, you notice. It could be that he is having trouble like you.
Mr. Shanks
Mr. Voordan
The two of you are soon seated in your office, in comfortable leather wing-back chairs. It is Rychel who speaks first.
I am worried about Steele. I
m worried about you, now, too.
Steele first. What is the news?
He is walking around like a zombie. He is out of his mind.
I had my Rooken Network do a little digging for me, and consulted some books myself. He is struggling with Romulus for his will. The Monster commanded him once, and now they are locked in mental combat, for jurisdiction over his will. This much I am certain of
You did much research on this problem. Perhaps it isn
t isolated
Sharp as a dirk, and quick to the point, that
s you, Rychel old boy!
for a moment there is a smile on your face.
I have had problems in my network that keep me up, night and day. Romulus is not alone. Of course, we knew that; this
Veritas
whoever he is, or was, or will be to us, he is at large. There can be little doubt that Veritas has seen both sides of the soil, eh, old friend?!
You have had trouble
Oh, and then some! You don
t look the picture of good rest and diet yourself, my lean companion.
Rychel looks out of his chair into a full-sized floor mirror in your office to confirm you assessment. He looks back at you, and you know he sees just as haggard a face before him.
Just the other day, I had to put a stake through the heart of one of my own men.
you begin to explain with an air of complete indifference, as though you were discussing the weather.
I knew something wasn
t right, though. He died, well, just as you might expect a man with a stake in his heart to die. Long, slow, painful, all the usual and requisite screaming, crying, soiling of his under things and the like. You know, don
t you?
Well, we threw the body into the harbour to see the job finished. We threw it in, waited for it to dissolve, and well, it just stayed there for a moment, then slowly sank to the depths. The men were a little put off, to say the least, and I, well, what could I do? What
s done is done, right?
No, my old friend. Good old Rychel! No, that was more than I could take.
You still maintain your composure and continue to speak about this topic as though it is some diversion of small interest. This is good practice anyway, even though you know you aren
t fooling Rychel.
The buggering blood suckers fooled me right and proper, and had me execute one of my own, right in front of my own men. The injustice of that misguided stake has been whispered through all the ranks, and though my men hold the line, I worry that they shouldn
t break soon. I am routed myself, you see, Rychel my friend.
You just need to spare me a man. Have a boy follow Steele. That
s all I ask.
You look back at Rychel. He has come for help. And here you were hoping for all the world that he was about to say
Garthy, my chum, lets us strap on our rig and hunt these devils down, shall we?! How does that suit you? Rychel at your service, Sir!
But he doesn
t. And you don
t ask his help. You know he sees the plea on your face, and hope that he will offer the aid you so desperately want. You wait, then nod. Then, slowly,
I shall do as you ask, Rychel. We must stick together! We will come through these times. Vampires are such devious adversaries, aren
t they?
Yep. Thanks
That is all he said before he left. Some men choose to say nothing when they have lots to say, and others say all sorts of needless things when they have but one thing they want to ask. Friendships endure such nuances though.
Well, things get bad, then they get good again. That is what you keep telling yourself, and you hear the men saying the same, as they wait for new orders, and for the boss to show that it is time to exert the will and flex the muscle of Vauxbourough
s Special Ventures Company and Guild. But it doesn
t come too soon.
You did have a man follow Steele. You put one of your Dashers, a boy named Goddard, on the case. He followed Steele all over the City, an confirmed what Rychel said; that the crazed elf wanders the streets from sunset to sunrise, sometimes in his bed clothes, with not a single blade on him. He wanders seemingly without aim, and if not for the intervention of you man, who Steele seems hardly to notice, would have any number of pick pockets and muggers to deal with. Steele is in a fog, and you are sure that he is struggling with Romulus for his will. You can only watch and wait.
Of Rychel, you see very little. He looks terrible every time you do meet, though, and he says little. He does report that an assassin nearly killed Goddard one night, and that only his efforts as a ghost-tail saved the Dasher, and, likely, Steele.
One day, Dorn showed up in the office really early. Long before sunrise, he comes barrelling into Vauxboroughs, rousing yourself and your guards.
One of the monsters was in my flat, Garth. I brained it something awful and got away, but they got my number now, Garthy my boy!
Dorn you cannot sacrifice in this dangerous chess game. You have played too defensively for too long. It is time to act.
Gableden!
you shout at a bleary-eyed Dasher.
Do what you can to bring Steele and Rychel to me! At first light, anyway, my boy!
Fin.
Iw},
$yi}
_rels/.rels
theme/theme/themeManager.xml
sQ}#
theme/theme/theme1.xml
w toc'v
)I`n
3Vq%'#q
:\TZaG
L+M2
e\O*
$*c?
)6-r
IqbJ#x
,AGm
T[XF64
E)`#
R>QD
=(K&
=al-
4vfa
0%M0
theme/theme/_rels/themeManager.xml.rels
6?$Q
K(M&$R(.1
_rels/.relsPK
theme/theme/themeManager.xmlPK
theme/theme/theme1.xmlPK
theme/theme/_rels/themeManager.xml.relsPK
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?>
<a:clrMap xmlns:a="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/drawingml/2006/main" bg1="lt1" tx1="dk1" bg2="lt2" tx2="dk2" accent1="accent1" accent2="accent2" accent3="accent3" accent4="accent4" accent5="accent5" accent6="accent6" hlink="hlink" folHlink="folHlink"/>
Trials of Leadership;
LES BLACKWELL
Stephen Robertson
Microsoft Office Word
)gl7
OAKRIDGE HEILOOMS
Trials of Leadership;
Microsoft Office Word 97-2003 Document