[Source: Greengrass Correspondence and Packages, 1483 DR.docx]

Greengrass, 1483 DR - Correspondence and Package from Bishop Whitegate

Along with all the other supplies and reinforcements arriving late in the morning of Greengrass, a small group of Amaunatori Magistrates and some junior clerks has appeared on the scene with a letter, and a wagonload of supplies. One of the magistrates seeks you out and offers the letter, while the other clerics unload the many wooden boxes and crates from the wagon.

The letter reads as follows:

  Ambassador Monarch,

  It is with great humility that the church sends additional supplies and provisions, in support of your Grand Adventure, and the next daring chapter you are about to embark upon. Our contribution is modest next to the blood your company has spilled and the hardships you’ve already endured, though the work has just begun. However, members of the church made generous contributions (some more generous than would be advisable for their personal circumstances), and I am proud to have them brought to the near edge of the conflict for your benefit.

  There are some boxes that will be of a more proximal military relevance than others, and will no doubt draw your attention. And there is a package in there from Invictus as well, which I understand Masters Hawkford and Alavandor have been asking after. When you have the time to properly enjoy the less warlike materials, I earnestly hope you take them in fully, and appreciate the efforts, some very small in the grand scale of your endeavour, but great for the small hands that wrought them, and return the love and hope that they dearly wish to impart you with now.

  I am ashamed that there isn’t more, but I am proud that the parishioners of the Faith put forth their support by whatever means available them.

  Finally, I tell you with all due solemnity that the clergy will perform the Oremus ab Ortu Solis Usque ad Occasum Solis[1] for the success of this dangerous day. Just as you forsake one of the most hallowed days of the year in our fine Dale to conduct your business, so too shall my clergy lend their efforts this entire day to bring His Light upon your works, and hasten your success and safety.

  His Light We Share,

  LW,

  Bishop—Dagger Falls

There are several boxes of various sizes in a wagon. Many are filled with non-standard, sometimes luxury provisions: good quality perishables as well as some high-quality preserves, candies, smoked meats, cheeses, and many good bottles of wine. These are 200 man-day provisions, though mostly perishable.

A canvas bag has a bundle of about 100 letters that have been written by children at the Grammar School at the Abbey. They are mostly from the younger students, with the older kids contributing a little, and have creative pictures of Chrysalis fighting every imaginable creature. Some are addressed to specific members of the team, with ‘Madame Elf’ getting the most individual correspondence, followed by Lucan, whose correspondence should have been more closely audited before being sent out.

One box has the Bishop’s Seal, and contains some very impressive magic, and a little note, which reads as follows:

  Your enemy is Shadow and Trickery. Herein are the most powerful tools at our disposal to deal with both. Your mightiest weapons will be the resolve of your flesh and will. Herein likewise are the most powerful tools we could furnish to sharpen both. I wish it were more...

-   Scroll of Remove Curse (4th Rank) x 2

-   Scroll of Remove Disease (3rd Rank) x 2

-   Potion of Restoration (3rd Rank) x 4

-   10 Everlights (as the 2nd Level Cleric Spell)

-   Scroll of Dawnflower’s Light (5th Rank)

-   Potion of True Seeing—this has an additional note tied to it: “I’m not sure we’ll see this again here in our time, it’s of great vintage —BLW”

-   Wand of Light (5th Rank)

-   Elixir of the New Dawn (drinking it counts as a full rest) x3. This package has an additional note tied to it: “With regards from my uncle, who instructs me to remind you that Hope is the Bedrock of Endurance —BLW”

Finally, one box has a leather bag with a book covered in white cloth and neatly bound with a white ribbon. Opening it reveals a heavy old book with a well-worn leather cover, entitled The Fey of the Western Heartlands, from the Tenth unto the Fifteenth Century: Being a Compendious Chronicle of Their Mischiefs, Marvels, Enchantments, and Divers Wonders Wrought in That Time; the Chaos That Cannot Be Tamed, Collected, Illuminated, and Faithfully Retold by Master Berthold Baervindour, Late of the Green Tower

This volume is a finely bound and lavishly illuminated tome exceeding four hundred folios in length. It comprises chiefly a compendium of tales and traditions concerning the fey-folk of the Western Heartlands, as preserved in the oral and written records of the tenth through fourteenth centuries. Interspersed throughout are certain scholastic treatises and reflective commentaries attributed to various sages and learned persons who have, over the ages, ventured to observe and interpret the workings of that otherworldly kind.

The final section of the book—addressing the tumultuous fifteenth century—is regrettably the briefest, a failing that the author attributes to “the advent of the Spellplague, which, while ushering forth a greater multitude of these wondrous beings upon our terrestrial shores, has wrought such chaos as to leave little ground for sober academic inquiry. Nevertheless, I have gathered what remnants I could, and to those I have appended sundry first-hand accounts, which, though unpolished, may yet prove of use and interest to the discerning reader.”

Marking a section in the final chapter is an envelope with a letter from Magistrate Invictus, which reads as follows:

  Your determination may just be something more than hubris. Perhaps His Light does guide the way down your dark path. As requested by Mr. Alavandor, I have granted access to the Historic Wing, by way of this volume, which I would appreciate being returned in good order at your earliest convenience. —I

The section it marks is reads as follows:

On the Heterochromia of Hagspawn

Once known as “Changelings” or “Quicklings” by the ancient Netherese (and earlier peoples—what ho?!), we have called them Hagspawn in these parts of Faerûn for as long as I can remember—and that’s long enough, even by elvish measures, now.

I should start with the boys, for this is where the greatest misconceptions arose so long ago. But no—let me rather begin with the habits of progeny among these remarkable creatures.

To begin, I must say: though they appear terrible to most Faerûnians, Hags are still Fey, and this means they are capable of great and wondrous things—though they do tend toward vice, and more than a little mischief. But couldn’t the same be said of just about anyone worth the ink for a remark?

Like all races, they have a drive to reproduce, which is why people of all walks of life have been discussing them for over ten millennia. As a rule, they do not take a single mate (would that others followed their example!), and unlike most species, they appear able to breed across a wide range of others. In fact, it has been surmised by scholars of various degrees of competence that their "survival strategy" (belonging to their race, if not each individual) has been to conduct a sort of experiment with their wombs—to see what issue may result from this mate or the next.

It is fairly certain that in the dimmest morning hours of civilization, trolls, ogres, and other foul creatures were early successes of these experiments. In the Western Heartlands, there is—such as we can build it—a round consensus among our order that the Bugbear, though no longer imbued with many vestigial fey qualities (beyond a preternatural stealth far greater than their size should allow), is the product of copulation between certain Hags and the hobgoblin race. Hags remain fond of both, though only bugbears seem to appreciate that fondness—if only in their vice-ridden fashion.

I have thus established that Hags will mate with a variety of prospects (lucky girls!), and it is well known among the learned that they give birth to both males and females—whom we may call "changelings," if you like.

Let us begin with the boys.

For the most part, they kill the boys. Why this behaviour should persist over the millennia, we do not know—but it is well attested that such is their practice. And yet there has, through all this time, remained a confusing notion that all children of Hags are shapeshifters. This is true only of the males. The term “Changeling,” as used by the Netherese and translated into our vulgar tongue, referred specifically to male offspring.

True shapeshifters, possessing the highest degree of control over their abilities, appear in tales that echo through all ages—terrible and wonderful stories, for the most part. But I have never met a true changeling. I suspect very few ever do, as the infanticide rate for such creatures is nearly perfect. Only rare escapes from the mother’s deadly wishes occur, usually made possible by rival Fey.

Now to the girls—numerous and interesting, though meaner than their mothers and possessing fewer of the Fey qualities we might admire in Hags.

Let me return to the title of this chapter: female Hagspawn always have two differently coloured eyes—one representing the nature of their mother, the other reflecting that of the father.

Thus we may find, in regions such as Saerloon, where Sea Hags have dwelt for generations, disparate sisters walking the countryside or the shore—usually causing mischief or worse, or (once in a long and unusual while) something wondrous. These sisters share both similarities and distinctions in appearance. This one might be tall and willowy, with fair, nearly imperceptibly blue skin, a sea-green eye, and a blue eye—marking a Sea Hag mother and a human or half-elven father, while another might be stout and mean of aspect, green-skinned, with a sea-green eye and a grey eye—born of a Sea Hag and some other monstrous sire.

Much can be learned from studying the eyes of these creatures; the vice and narcissism of their mothers are oft betrayed in the daughters’ gaze.

Here are some of the known eye colours of Hags in the Heartlands East of the Stormhorns:

-   Night Hags, found south of the Dragon Coast, bear always an eye of jet. In this century, they favour the vile devil-folk who now walk with impunity in gentle places, and produce in a changeling a reddish eye.

-   Moon Hags, often found clinging to the crumbling tombs of centuries past, bear an eye of putrid milk. They favour, when they can pin them to an old sarcophagus, mates from the Fey Realm (now over-abundant by any reasonable estimation), and produce changelings with eyes of glorious amber or shimmering saffron.

-   Swamp Hags, who have plagued the Dales since before the erection of the Standing Stone, have eyes of crystal grey. They favour any stiff mate they can trick or capture, often breeding with the “nephews” of their race (in true Dales fashion): goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears—producing myriad distasteful hues in mean-eyed villainesses.

-   Annis Hags, whom the Purple Dragons have never succeeded in extirpating from their Royal Forests, bear purple eyes to match their natural hue. As everyone knows, they prefer the very Men that the Purple Dragons vainly seek to protect. From such men they often produce a clear blue eye, though occasionally brown—where the Cormyrean line has been muddied long before the unholy copulation in question.