In the days before the Waterdeep Harvestide celebrations of 1371, DR, those brave souls who had undertaken a pledge to the murdered Harper, Zaltim, known as the Road Mage, joined forces with the Company of the Red Herring. The mystery that brought these two bands of heroes together centred on the mysterious Moonsea man, Thagdul, and the machinations of the Zhentish trading companies of Ersgul and Drurginz. In the days and weeks that led up to Highharvestide, these same machinations erupted in fire and blood throughout Waterdeep's wards, and it became clear that our heroes were in the swirling and unstable midst of a conspiracy that spread not only across the Realms, but across the very fabric of the planes themselves.

== 25 Eleint - Ersgul Makes Its Move ==

===Yarkul's Olive Branch ===

This portion of the tale actually begins on in the last days of the month of Eleint, as the City prepared itself for the grand weeklong celebrations that mark the culmination of the trading season for the thousands of souls that live in the market center of Waterdeep. On 25 Eleint, as Garth and his companions were sitting down to break their fast in the building that had come to be the Red Herring's headquarters, a crisp knock was heard at the door. As had happened so many times before, the company members tensed and readied themselves, expecting another unwelcome visit from their enigmatic patron, Thagdul of Company Drurginz. Surprisingly, the visitor turned out, in fact, to be the half-orc Gul'dan, the leader of the . The villain had come calling dressed in his most garish finery, acting as a representative of Thagdul's nemesis - Yarkul of Company Ersgul. At the sight of the scoundrel, Raven very nearly drew his blade on the spot, but paused as Garth spoke up - bidding the messenger remain outside, and speak his piece at once. In a display of politic most incongruous with what the companions knew to be his churlish nature, Gul'dan invited the Company to lunch with Yarkul at Gounar's Tavern that very afternoon, where they were to hear a proposition that Gul'dan assured them would be 'to their conspicuous advantage'. Narrowing his eyes at the dubious, even comical display, Garth accepted on behalf of the company, then nodded to Raven, who slammed the door in the creature's brutish face.

A few hours later, the Company of the Red Herring - Mourn Raventree, Jafar, Tomas Quoyle and Garth Shanks - set out to meet with the Zhent mage at the appointed locale, where they found Yarkul expecting them, and apparently, alone. Yarkul bade them to order their fill, and once the food had arrived, he put forth his offer: in exchange for the Company of the Red Herring switching  their allegiance from Drurginz to Ersgul, Yarkul would waive any debts or liabilities they may have incurred with his organization. To a man, his audience refused him offer bluntly. Livid, Yarkul warned that they had chosen foolishly, and intoned portentously that “Harvestide will be wartide!\" At this, Tomas, Raven and Jafar pushed their plates aside and leave the Tavern, while the ever-pragmatic Mr. Shanks continued eating his meal, eyeing Yarkul's petulant face across the table and shrugging at his companions' impetuosity. Fuming, Yarkul threw his hands into the air and withdrew to the streets whence he had come. Garth finished his meal alone.

=== City on the Razor's Edge ===
thumb|Crest of the Waterdhavian Noble House of Anteos
It was not until later that afternoon that Thagdul finally showed himself, meeting with the Company of the Red Herring and the Companions from Neverwinter, whom he had asked Jafar to bring together for a gathering. Thagdul was visibly heartened at the decision by the Red Herrings to turn down Yarkul's offer, and even indicated that he had an inkling as to what the Zhent's motivations may have been in making it. Yarkul was worried, he explained, about the allegiances of the Waterdhavian Anteos Family, one of the noble houses of the City. Yarkul was well aware that the patriarch of the family, Dulbrawan, carried an open hatred for him on account of his Company's dealings with Company Dalael. Not only had Quevin Dalael, who oversaw his family's mercantile dealings, fathered a bastard on Dulbrawan's consort, Ranaya, but the ambitious family heir, Dulbrawan's younger brother Korass had pledged his services to both Ersgul and the Dalael, splitting the family's interests in twain. House Anteos was old and powerful, and as Dulbrawan happened to be a friend and ally of Thagdul, this battleground was quite important to both sides in the Ersgul-Drurginz conflict. Should Yarkul have succeeded in his bid to bring the Company of the Red Herrings into the Ersgul fold, Drurginz and its allies would have found themselves in a dangerously weakened position.

After this explanation, Thagdul motioned for Jafar to bring forward his new acquaintances - the party of adventurers that had come to Neverwinter in pursuit of the Zhentarim plot that had resulted in the deaths of the Northern Harpers, notably Zaltim, Laurel Dawn and Ansal Bloodshoulder. To these heroes - the dwarves Alt Kor and Wilk Shtub, the priests Rufus of Selûne and Beljuril of Azuth, and Hob the halfling - Thagdul explained that he was, in truth, a Harper agent. He had gone deep under cover, in the guise of a known Zhentarim agent named Thagdul, whom he had killed years ago in Zhentil Keep. Jafar seemed convinced, but many other of the Company members, and even the companions - who had intercepted a note saying as much - continued to harbour their own private doubts about the truth of Thagdul's revelation.

The delicate balance of power between Drurginz and Ersgul notwithstanding, it was at this fateful joining of the parties that Thagdul proposed that the Red Herrings be 'snipped from his apron strings' and set to their own devices. To Beljuril and Rufus and their companions, the mysterious man suggests that while he had much to tell them, they should first learn all they can from the Company of the Red Herring.

===\"Five Days to Live\"===

For the time being, at least, it seemed that the Red Herrings were finally free of Thagdul's influence. Nevertheless, there remained from their exploits that summer many loose ends that remained unsolved. Chief among these, to the cupiditous turn of mind that had begun to characterize the Company as a whole, was the matter of the missing shavings of the Heart of the Earth. Garth's investigations months earlier had pointed to Haskar Hunabar as the most likely suspect, and thus it was that the Company of the Red Herring decided to address itself to learning all they could about the inhabitants of the Hunabar villa.

Garth, Ellyth and Jafar set about these investigations, but Raven and Tomas had other fish - or, to be precise, filthy rascals - to fry. While their comrades made inquiries about the Hunabar family, these two men took it upon themselves to pay a visit to the safehouse of the Company of Reprobates to return Gul'dan's courtesy call of that morning. At the safehouse, the door was answered by the imposing figure of Sergeant Krag, the Reprobates' half-ogre enforcer, who grunted that he was the only one there. Tomas and Raven informed him in no uncertain terms that it was time for Gul'dan's crew to dissolve their relationship with Ersgul. Should the Red Herrings find that the Reprobates continue to work for Yarkul's organization against Drurginz, there would be hell to pay. Krag glowered at the two, but agreed to deliver the message. As Raven and Tomas turned to leave, however, Rubikawn emerged from the shadows opposite the doorway and jabbed a spidery finger at Tomas, leveling a portentous threat: \"You have five days left to live.\"

===Enter the Dragon===

After this encounter, Tomas and Raven decided to retire for a drink at the Dripping Dagger, where they then parted ways - Tomas returning to his home in Dock Ward, Raven to his family's villa in Sea Ward. Unfortunately, in his misplaced eagerness to match the young fisherman's prodigious intake, Raven found himself slightly the worse for drink, and it was in this inebriated state that the young ranger experienced his finest (and bleakest) hour. Pausing to relieve himself in a darkened alley, he came face to face with a young half-elf woman flanked by a half-dozen drow. This, it would later be learned, was none other than Dragon, Yarkul's half-elf daughter and a powerful lieutenant in the Ersgul hierarchy. True to form, however, Raven wasted no time with pleasantries. No sooner had Dragon begun to speak than Raven brought his fist up into the willowy villain's face, not only knocking her out cold, but marring her beauty forever with a broken nose that she bears to this day. Alas, Raven's lucky drunken punch was a one-time affair, and he was soon bested by the half-elf's drow minions, who riddled him with sleeping darts almost before he could catch his balance. As he lost consciousness, Raven later recalled that he heard the name Wavesilver briefly whispered, then darkness.

== 26 Eleint - Hunting the House of Hunabar ==

=== Lockdown at the Villa ===

Raven's ill luck was still unknown to the heroes when they met the next day to pool their findings on the Hunabars. Garth had learned that in the months since he learned of Haskar's alleged dealings with Alek Lenter, the family had been receiving death threats of some sort, and that the patriarch had been leading a life of veritable house arrest and had hired Silmerhelve sellswords for protection. The Hunabar's security measures, Jafar had learned, also included the services of one Kalindos, said to be a powerful invoker in the circles at the Watchful Order.

Ellyth, too, had learned of the Silmerhelve hire, and had trailed a captain of the mercenaries, a junior scion named Tristan Silmerhelve, to the Dripping Dagger after his inspections the previous day. She had been able to quickly enthral a local patron by the name of Edgar Grimbold (who had played a not inconsequential role in this saga in years past, and was to do again, as the canny reader will note) and convinced the poor sap to begin a bar brawl - allowing her to witness Silmerhelve's talents firsthand. Grimbold had been quickly and unceremoniously knocked out by Tristan, thus allowing Ellyth to confirm that the Hunabars had hired well-trained men indeed.

=== A Moonlight Heist ===
thumb|400px|A robbery by moonlight goes horribly, horribly wrong.
That night was the night of the full moon, and the heroes felt that it would be an ideal time to undertake a raid the Hunabar villa and retake the Heart of the Earth. They spent the better part of the day planning the assault in careful detail, and that evening, along with Rufus, Beljuril, Wilk and Hob and two others - the aforementioned Edgar (who asked to be called by his nom-d'aventure, Stuart Bold), and a companion whom he introduced as Rychel Voordan, a skilled second-story man - the Red Herrings easily penetrated the villa's defenses and gained entry to the main building. Despite the heavy guard, the villa itself seemed eerily empty, though the faint sound of what sounded like chanting could be heard from several stories above. As the companions began to spread out to investigate the building, however, the silence was broken by the sudden arrival of two women who rushed into the main hall dressed in strange, ritualistic robes. The women stopped short at the sight of the intruders, and after a brief stunned silence in which the two parties eyed one another, unsure of what to do, the two began to scream warnings to the upper stories. As the two screamed however, their voices - and bodies - underwent a startling metamorphosis before the very eyes of the companions. Where two women had been standing, the heroes were suddenly faced with two snarling lupine lycanthropes - werewolves. The creatures sprang the attack, and were soon joined by several other ravening monsters who descended from the upper stories.

During the confusion, Jafar - protected by an invisibility enchantment - had managed to make his way upstairs, where he began methodically exploring the rooms in search of the prize that he had been told to expect. As he came to what he had thought to be an empty bedroom, he was surprised to discover another figure rifling through a wardrobe. It was Rychel, who had entered the villa via a bedroom window while the rest of the party came in from below. When he saw what Rychel had pulled from the wardrobe, Jafar made his presence known to the stalker. In Rychel's hands was a staff capped with a small beholder, much like those carried by Yarkul and Thagdul. Rychel had also discovered a box that seemed to be the same one recovered that summer from the . Their objective accomplished, Rychel bade Jafar make good his escape with the take, while he turned to observe the events that were unfolding below.

=== The Wolfman's Wrath ===

In the main hall, the battle had escalated to a fever pitch. Two of the smaller werewolves had fallen to Wilk's axe, but the rest were holding their own against the companions, who were fighting as defensively as possible, for fear of infection by the plague that coursed through their enemies' veins. The standoff was broken, however, when the largest, and most grizzled, of the lycanthropes leaped to a landing above the main hall and reverted to human form, bellowing for the chaos to cease. This was Haskar Hunabar, the patriarch of the family - as grizzled a human as he had been as a wolf-thing, and dressed in robes similar to (though slightly more ornate than) those worn by the two women that had discovered the intruders. As the combatants warily lowered their weapons and the wolves backed down, pulling the fallen bodies - which had reverted to the form of human children - away from the intruders, Haskar lowered a finger at the intruders and, visibly incensed, began to speak.

\"What do you mean by invading MY home and attacking MY family during our religious observances? You have murdered my children!\"

Garth took the initiative in responding affrontedly that the Hunabars were only getting what they deserved for stealing the Heart of the Earth, and that furthermore, the lycanthropes had been the aggressors, not the \"repossession crew\", as he called his companions. To this, Haskar snarled, his eyes flashing angrily. \"My son's doings are no concern of mine, boy. We will let you leave peacefully if you leave NOW, but don't think this injury will go unavenged!\"

Carefully, the heroes took the opportunity to stand down, and withdrew to the safety of the streets without. From the villa, the wailing of the Hunabar women took on the keen of she-wolves, a sound which dogged the companions' footsteps all the way back to Dock Ward.

==27 Eleint - Following the threads ==

===Haskar's Temper===

Rufus, for one, had been profoundly disturbed by the events of the previous evening, not so much for the misunderstanding that had led to the deaths of the Hunabar whelps, but rather from the nature of the ceremony that they had interrupted. As a lycanthrope himself, he believed that there was no need for the Hunabars to hide their nature. Furthermore, he knew that whatever ceremony the Hunabar's had been partaking of during the full moon, it had not been a Selûnite one, and he decided that he would return to the Villa to bring the word of the Moon Goddess, and perhaps to learn more about this interloping faith. When he mentioned this errand to the others on the morning of afterwards, Rychel bade him wait, and scrawled out a note for the priest to deliver to the Hunabars. Things did not go as he planned.

As it turned out, Haskar himself met him at the door, still bristling with rage. \"You aren't just murderers, but thieves,\" the patriarch spat. \"You tell your companions to return the staff you stole – it’s mine, and my son’s antics have nothing to do with me. You have twenty-four hours, or so help me, there will be a reckoning.”

It seemed clear that Rufus would have no luck evangelizing the Lady of Silver this day. As he turned to leave, he remembered Rychel's missive, and he handed it to his grizzled host. Rufus had not thought to read the letter, as perhaps he should have. As Haskar read the message, his face blanched then flushed with rage. \"Thagdul has the staff?\" he screamed. \"You'll die now, rodent!\" He and two of his family sprang at Rufus, changing as they flew at him, and Rufus only managed to escape by turning into his animal form and scurrying away as a weasel. In so doing, he was forced to leave behind the enchanted leather armour he had been bequeathed by the Road Mage, a loss he bitterly regretted. It was clear that Haskar and Thagdul were known to each other, and regretted it.

While Rufus made his foray, Jafar was making his own move against the Hunabars, penning an exclusive for the Waterdeep Trumpet which would reveal the noble family's secret to the city's public. He contacted a representative of the paper that very morning, who paid him a handsome fee for the story. For some strange reason, however, it was never published.

=== The Mysterious Istolil Dalael ===

When Rufus returned to the headquarters, he accused Rychel of having nearly killed him, to which the wily jongleur played innocent. Jafar's return interrupted the confrontation hoewver, as Rychel took this opportunity to brief the rest of the party on his and Jafar's findings from the Hunabar Villa. Despite initial excitement about the box which had contained the Heart of the Earth shavings, however, when opened, it proved to be empty of any trace. The box had been lined with an exotic fabric, and it now contained only a locket, which was inscribed as follows:

Dear Joldara,

This symbol of my eternal love,

— Istolil Dalael}}

How the box had come to be in the possession of the Hunabars, and where the Heart of the Earth shavings had gone, remained a mystery.

The textile fabric was the only clue the party had, and Rufus realized that he could draw upon Selûne's gifts to follow it up. Casting locate object, he, Rychel, and Jafar then hired a carriage to take them around the city until they came within range of the bolt of fabric from which the lining had come. It was a thin lead, but the only one they could see. As luck would have it, the gamble paid off. Within an hour, Rufus had picked up the scent - which led them under the surface of the city to a hole in the city sewers. Rychel volunteered to investigate, and Jafar and Rufus were happy to let him go alone, despite (or because of) their misgivings about their new companion.

Rychel found a chamber off the main tunnel, a chamber occupied by a drow who seemed civil enough. The dark elf purported to be Istolil Dalael - a relation of the drow who ran Company Dalael. He had cut ties with his family, he implied, after they had started dealing with a cell of cultists who worshiped Iyachtu Xvim operating out of the Wavesilver Villa. He told Rychel that he wanted only to be left alone, and to have the locket back, in exchange for which he was willing to offer intelligence on the location of the missing Raven. The ranger was being held at an abandoned warehouse in Dockward, the drow revealed. Excited about the information, Rychel didn't push the matter of where Istolil had gotten the box, which the drow didn't appear to know much about.

Unfortunately, Rychel also didn't realize that the true identity of the drow informant was none other than Rubikawn the Reprobate, and that the information he had received would lead him and his companions straight into a trap.

=== The Vortex ===

The adventurers then went to the warehouse that Istolil had indicated, where they fell into a trap. The warehouse was full of panes of glass that were covered in drow poison. A hidden mage shattered all the glass magically, and summoned a whirlwind which whipped up the shards of poisoned glass, engulfing the adventurers. Tomas and Rufus were cut down pretty quick, especially once some drow engage them, but Rychel manages to save the two.

After this raid, Magistrate Thuman shows up, with Watch Wizard Sabrel Lightstar and Captain of the Watch Griswold Horn. The trio arrest adventurers, and Rufus is taken to a separate cell where he is interrogated and tortured by Sabrel. The wizard demands to know Rufus' ‘true name’. Fortunately, Rychel has Harkas Kormallis show up to bail them out, and is surprised when Magistrate Vader simultaneously shows up to do the same. Kormallis is unimpressed by the company that the CRH and the Neverwinter crew are keeping (Vader, like Thuman, is notoriously corrupt), and expresses this to Rychel. Kormallis seems to know something about Vader that he does not like. Vader does not seem to favour Kormallis, either.

==28 Eleint - Showdown at the Dripping Dagger==

=== A Rainbow of Carnage ===
thumb|350px|An exhibit from Filiare's submission to the Waterdeep Public House and Innkeepers' Surety Co-operative
The next day, a note from Yarkul is found stuck to the door of the CRH HQ, demanding an answer from the heroes.

This is how one of the messiest battles in Waterdeep started. Of course, the adventurers had no intention of showing up at the Dripping Dagger to switch sides - Thagdul had been good to them so far, even if they did not quite trust him - but they did intend to show up.

As it turns out, Yarkul did not trust the adventurers, and he had the place filled with his men. Not only where there numerous wererats and Zhents and the place, but Quevin was there with two other drow and a pair of Ghaunadan. On top of that, Yarkul himself was upstairs.

When the inevitable fight broke out, things got really messy. The dwarven heroes of Neverwinter, Wilk Shtub and Alt Kor were slain. Rychel went toe-to-toe with Quevin for quite some time, before Quevin decided to make his escape. It was at that time that Rychel turned his attention upon the recently discovered invisible Yarkul. Yarkul stood not a chance against Rychel, and was quickly dispatched. Rychel risked nothing; he put Yarkul over his shoulder, grabbed the staff and left before anyone could say a word.

In the end, the Dripping Dagger was destroyed. A combination of fires, acid and physical violence turned the place into a nightmare hazard, and the place was closed.

Rychel took Yarkul to a safe place and interrogated him at this point. Rychel manages to learn a good deal from the mage about the Company Ersgul. Rychel cuts off Yarkul’s thumbs to make sure he can’t cast spells anymore (a measure that proved to be inadequate).

The CRH returns a little while later to their HQ to find that the Hunabar staff has been stolen, despite the many layers of magical and mundane security that Beljuril had ensconced it in. The CRH is absolutely livid at this point. Soon after, Rychel brings Yarkul to HQ, and further interrogation takes place. A list of Ersgul resources and contacts is made, and it is learned that Teskul has a romantic involvement with Yarkul’s daughter, Dragon.

Ersgul, it would seem, had been broken.

=== A Trade ===

Later in the day, a message arrives from a man named Elbing Hightimber, a priest of Cyric who is living at the Wavesilver Villa. Hightimber agrees to trade Raven for Yarkul, and the adventurers agree that it would be prudent to do so at this point. Raven is returned, and Yarkul is handed over to Hightimber. Raven appears to have been drugged. He is bruised and covered in lacerations, and does not seem like himself at first.

Later that night, Raven seems to be recovering, and with the magical help of Beljuril, he manages to remember some of what happened. He remembers being in a pit full of slime and broken glass and other broken metal items. He was wearing only a loin cloth, and killed many people in the pit. Many eyes of different colours watched the gladiatorial carnage unfold, and one of the spectators in particular was a man built of deep darkness and wreathed in shadow and fear. This man, it would turn out, is Baron Drake, a Cambion and champion of Iyachtu Xvim.

As Beljuril slept that night, he had a portentous dream, a boon from Azuth. While the others slept, Jafar took the staff of Yarkul (6.5’, 7 stalks) to lock it up for safekeeping at the Tower of Order.

== 30 Eleint - Eve of Destruction ==

The next day (the 30th, the day before Harvestide), Esperel gathers information about the Wavesilver Family. As it turns out, they began to loose their fortunes years ago when they began trading with the Company Dalael. Ruin found the family even more completely in recent months, as most of the family holdings were purchased by elements of Company Dalael and Company Ersgul. At length, the Family lost almost everything. The shamed patriarch of the Family, Bleskos, retired to the one failing vessel he had left in the harbour, the Silver Spear, and left the rest of the Family to whatever fate would find it.

It is learned that almost all the remaining family was living in the guesthouse at that point, and elements of Company Ersgul had taken up residence there. The only Wavesilver left in the house was supposed to be the consort to Bleskos, April. Esperel further found out that the villa was built on an ancient site, and that a powerful Mythal was in place there. As well, the compound is well guarded by watchspiders, which live in the trees.

Later in the day, the CRH and remaining members of the Neverwinter crew (NC) met with Thagdul in the Thirsty Throat Tavern, where a large Drurginz staff party appears to be held. They are celebrating the ruin of Yarkul, and toast the CRH, NC and Rychel in particular. Rychel leaves, as he still does not trust Thagdul one bit. Thagdul rewards the CRH and NC members for their service. All are given cloaks and some money for their service.
