right|450px
The daughter of Decker Blackmane (mayor of Tesh Valley Farm) and Aestus (Whitegate), Hasting is a dour woman in her 28th year.  Though she is lithe and pretty, she is unmarried and cheerless.  She has the fine dark features of her father’s line; long dark hair, brown eyes and a ruddy complexion.  Though she never smiles, nor does she habitually wear a scowl or even a frown; her expression is usually entirely neutral, which has kept her skin from the wrinkles of too much care, but has also kept suitors at bay.  Though her face seems expressionless, her unhappy and bitter personality is not concealed; she has a sharp tongue and conceals none of her thoughts.

Hasting is estranged from her father.  Hasting wanted his father to abandon the role of mayor of his farm long ago, so that he might move to town and pursue more lofty offices.  Decker, however, has long resented what he sees as the ‘Whitegate Entitlement’, and has avoided any benefit that the family might provide for him or his family.  When Hasting was asked on her 25th birthday if she would like to become Steward of the Close, her father forbid her taking the position.  She took it all the same, and has not spoken to him directly since.

When her mother, the lovely and much-loved Aestis, died, Decker decided to have her buried in his family plot at Tesh Valley.  Hasting tried to convince him to have her interred with the rest of the Whitegates down at Liberty Hill, but he would not have it.  Hasting then refused to attend the service at Tesh Valley, and has since refused her father’s last name.   She now calls herself by her mother’s last name, and when asked about this impertinence, replies “I am my mother’s daughter, am I not?”

She has never been a happy child, and her estrangement from her father in her adult years, and the loss of her mother, her only tie to the family that she loves, has made her sink deep inside herself.  Finally, the selling off of everything in the Close, an endeavour which she has been bitterly tasked to overseeing, has been too much for her to bear.  She is quietly depressed about the fact that she must see to the dismantling of the home that she always coveted.
