This was the opening narrative for the adventure \"Deadnettle\"

----

== Greengrass, 1480 DR, White Cloak Tower, Castle Radiance ==
It is the morning of Greengrass, 1480 DR, The Year of the Deep Water Drifting.

It is just al little after the lengthy service of Matins, or First Light has concluded, and the large common hall on the ground floor of White Cloak Tower is beginning to come alive with activity.  This hall has been used as a hostel and dining hall for all pilgrims and other visitors who don’t mind austere accommodations since last summer and the first arrival of the large pilgrimages to the Castle to see the tomb of Ardelusk Whitegate. Banitt Harbaugh was instrumental in the conversion of the main floor of the tower for this purpose, and though he met resistance to this plan, in the end Lumina agreed that it would be good to offer hospitality to all those who have come to see the tomb of her ancestor.

The hostel has been empty for much of the winter, but the spring has brought some visitors at last; there are a dozen or so pilgrims who have come from Cormyr here today, and an assortment of other travellers to the Castle who have come for business who are taking advantage of the hospitality of the White Cloaks.  This does not bother most of the company.  Indeed, the company takes all meals in the commons with the visitors, and many of the company take turns cooking for and serving the guests.

== Strangers Breaking Fast ==

On this morning, most of the White Cloaks are present; some are returning from Matins, while those of faiths other than Amaunator have remained behind to prepare breakfast for everyone.  The dozen or so guests who are not pilgrims are milling about talking to each other and some of the White Cloaks, and one thin merchant is trying in vain to give some money to Troia for his room and board, as she stirs a huge pot of boiling oats.  Soon, the worshipers arrive, and the hall is now a buzz.  The sound of all the boots filing in, oak chairs scraping along the stone floor, merry voices greeting each other, and a group of pilgrims singing a song with their strong accents fills the room.  It is a joyous sound; people being happy, being fed, sharing fellowship with teammates and strangers alike.

One enormous oak table in the middle of the room seats most of the White Cloaks, and many visitors who share stories and news as well as breakfast with their hosts.  Some of the team sit at other tables with the guests; Banitt is known to never sit at the main table, preferring to get to know the pilgrims and other guests personally.  Troia is also quite gregarious, and usually sits with strangers.

As breakfast is concluding, people begin to get up and bring their dishes to the open kitchen at the end of hall, guests and inhabitants of the Tower both.  The two long walls in the great hall are lined with bunks and foot lockers, and many of the guests begin to attend these, gathering their things and making their plans for the day.  Some of the White Cloaks go among the guests for the last time this morning, wishing them well, before heading up a stout set of stone steps to the next level.

==The White Cloaks Convene==

The second level of the Tower is dominated by a huge open space as well, this space being used mostly for training.  The team files past racks of weapons and training dummies, to another set of stone stairs in the opposite corner, and heads up to the third floor, into the smaller halls and rooms of this level.

The largest room on the third floor is the War Room; a large table with a map painted right on it takes up the bulk of this room, and there are uncomfortable stools and chairs surrounding it.  Lumina motions for all of you to sit down, and she takes her spot at the head of the table.

Lumina speaks;

<i>
“As some of you noticed, a few of us got an exceptionally early start this morning.  Messages have been coming in for a couple of days about a troubling level of activity in the heart of the dale.  I have a report here from Alystair, who as you know has been on assignment with Tuugan for a month already.  His report is disconcerting, and it is not the only of its kind.  We have been getting reports from our two forts on our western front that there is increased Netherese activity, and already some probing assaults.

“This morning, at his daily Situation Report in Loedegan’s Hall, Lord Whitegate will be revealing a new common bounty.  We are more concerned than ever with the affairs of this slippery group, and we are certain that they are organizing much of the mayhem in the heartland.  The common bounty that is being revealed today will address this, and hopefully draw some bounty hunters into the heartlands.  I intend to send one squad to pursue this bounty, and to put an end to these dangerous women, or whatever they are, for good.”
</i>

Lumina looks around the table.  Sitting on either side of her are her sergeants; the only two of the original group that are not already on assignment are Iolus and Troia.  The silver clasp that holds their cloaks together each have an engraved single chevron, indicating their rank.  The rest of you have a single bar across yours.  “I will be sending Iolus to lead this mission.  He knows more about the region than Troia, and I need her elsewhere.”  She looks at her hands on crossed on the table for a moment.  She does not like to have to make decisions such as this, and ever since her ‘dream’ in the Shadowfell, all big decisions seem to weigh on her heavily.

“As for the rest, I will take volunteers.  Let’s have five more…”

==Volunteers==

For their own reasons, the following were the first to volunteer;

*Banitt Harbaugh, ‘The Pilgrim’ of Amaunator.  Banitt was also up early this morning, and left the tower with Lumina to attend some meeting.  He returned with an interesting new item…
*Corran Altair, the Paladin of Torm who also has ties to the heartland of Daggerdale.
*Rhuun of Thunder, the head-turning goliath emissary from the Storm Peaks far to the north, who shares a common enemy in Netheril.
*Sorashana, the other-worldly beauty who is always on the edge of being locked up and interrogated for her very origin, but who seethes contempt and hatred for Netheril that is unmatched, even in this fortress.
*Drake Sterling

Lumina seems happy with the squad composition.  She instructs the lot of you to take the day to get ready for the trip.  “Banitt,” she says after there is some discussion between the squad.  “I’ll have you provision and quartermaster this excursion.”  She then gives Banitt a key to the armoury, and instructions to see to the outfitting of the squad.  “I am going to the SitRep, now.  Iolus, you will come with me.  The rest of you begin your preparations.  You will be leaving first thing tomorrow morning.”

Corran stays seated at the table he was eating at. Dressed in simple, dreary clothing, he looks like anything but a paladin at the moment. His face shows little in the way of emotion but his blue eyes suggest that there is much going on behind them. Even as Lumina turns to leave, he speaks to her in a clear voice.

\"What do we know of this...Dark Garden? What are we hoping to dispose of here? Why are we being sent east when rumours suggest that Netheril's numbers grow in the west?\"

Banitt replies.

“The Dark Garden is a metaphor for the growing of Seeds of Shar in the dales.

“I have seen it spreading in my dreams, and the report of Alystair Dretch suggests that it is most likely that a new sect of the cult has been formed in Dagger Falls.

“Mostly the suppositions of Mr. Dretch... but ahh, it breaks my heart. Just as the White Forest of Pilgrims began to flourish under the light of Saint Ardelusk!

“It is rumoured that an artefact named \"The Black Hand of Saint Gaebril\" has entered our lands. It is the binding element in the last of three sacrificial ceremonies, the three culminating in a new supplicant rising to power as the leader of a new sect.

Alystair and Tuugan Swift, senior members of our company both, stopped a supplicant at Dwimmerholme Farm. It was on the night of the Harvestide festival that they rooted out and put an end to the second sacrificial ceremony there.”

He looks around at a few papers on the table, \"Not here.. Hmmm\"

\"When Lumina returns I will have her share the other report from Alystair. I have read it and can answer questions as I realize this is dire news indeed.\"
