thumb|right|300px

== History ==
Lannus Paros was born in the merchant-city of Everlund, Luruar, in the year 1451 DR, the only child to his parents, Belmon and Calara Paros.  His family had owned and operated a small caravan that made its rounds through Luruar, the Gray Vale, and the Sword Coast.  Much of Lannus' youth was spent in the back of covered wagons while the caravan traded goods across the north-west.  At the age of sixteen Lannus felt that trading wasn't his calling and left the family business to sign up for the Army of the Vale.  Within the year he was trained and posted to Everlund with a blade at his side and a longbow on his back.

== Septem Wars ==
Between the years of 1468 and 1474 DR a persistent campaign was waged against Luruar by a northern horde of Many-Arrows orcs, and a western army of troll and giantkin that crawled out of the swamps of the Evermoors.  The people of Luruar rallied behind the Army of the Vale and joined forces with the barbarians of Uthgardt to push the creatures back into whatever dark holes they climbed out of.  The war did not end with a timely victory, or a crushing defeat on either side.  Rather the armies of orcs, trolls, and giantkin simply shrank back into their respective territories late in the year of 1474 DR.  To date the people of Luruar still do not know the motive behind the invasion, or who organized and lead it.  Many speculate that the forces of chaos simply united to spread death and fear before succumbing to disorganization and infighting, eventually disbanding and retreating into the wilds.

=== Campaign in the North ===
During the first two years of the Septem Wars, Lannus patrolled the breadth of the Glimmerwoods for signs of an orc incursion.  He was a member of Sun Patrol, one of three patrols that make up Eagle Platoon, one of three platoons that make up Heavy Company, one of four companies that make up the 2nd Everlund Battalion.  The Suns were a dozen men in their late teens and early twenties, lead by an extremely pious Amaunatoran by the name of Sergeant Hennigan Millstone.  The Suns were responsible for safeguarding a stretch of the Glimmerwood that was often traveled by small bands of orcs trickling past the front lines along the northern edge of the woods.  Lannus was very impressed with his sergeant, a strong man originally from \"o'er the mountains on the other side of Netheril\", who had been living in Everlund the last few years; he was sent to replace the Sun's previous alcoholic sergeant.  Sergeant Millstone had been injured months prior in an engagement in the south-western edge of the Glimmerwood and was training with the Suns as a form of rehabilitation in what could be considered a relatively combat-light area.  The Sergeant was a kind yet hard man who quickly earned the respect of his men through his skilled use of strategy and resources to ensure the safety of his men while dispatching the enemy.  Lannus came to idolize the man and his abilities and learned a great deal about leadership and strategy from him.

Late one night in the spring of 1470 DR the Suns were ambushed by a huge warband that had punched through Highwall Company, who had been tasked with guarding the northern edge of the forest.  Sergeant Millstone ordered his men to retreat south and warn Able Company.  Lannus by this time had been promoted to patrol corporal, so he rallied the troops to beat a retreat.  The Sergeant still hadn't fully recovered from his wounds and told Lannus he would only slow them down.  Hennigan drew his blade and threw his backpack to Lannus.  He ordered Lannus to get the men and that bag back to safety and marched north to face the horde.  Hundreds of orcs were tearing through the forest but a few hundred meters from their position, smashing everything in their wake.  As the Suns fled into the darkness all they could hear was the deafening cacophony of metal and shouting, momentarily interrupted by a brilliant flash of light and shouts of confusion and pain.  After running for three days and nights the Suns escaped their pursuers and managed to warn Able before the tide of orcs fell upon them.  Able Company rallied and routed the orc incursion before it could spread further south.  The Suns were commended for the lives their determination and perseverance had saved.

=== Campaign in the South ===

A few weeks later an abrupt change in battalion deployment was announced by Lannus' superiors.  The remainder of 2nd Everlund Battalion, which consisted of Heavy, Able, and the remainder of Highwall Company, would be pulling out of the north to reunite with Rauvin Company and assist the 2nd Silverymoon Battalion in the southern theatre.  The battles waged against the giants, trolls, and other marsh creatures had been disastrous in recent months.  The enemy employed a seemingly endless fount of dark magics and necromancy to bolster their forces.  Spreading fear and chaos throughout south-western Luruar.

Lannus, out of touch with much that had transpired in the south, had been looking forward to seeing his home and family after spending so long under the cold canopy of the Glimmeringwoods.  His brief return to the city was a depressing experience.  Everlund had been mercilessly sieged over the past fall and winter and much of the walls and towers were brought low.  What people remained were in complete disarray.  Huge caravans of panicked refugees were being formed to flee south into the Gray Vale now that the 2nd Everlund Battalion had returned to help secure the region.  Like many of Everlund's soldiers, Lannus never found his family.  He was told by a family friend that his parents had escaped south before the worst of the attacks, Sadly however, they did not know to where they fled.

By the summer of 1470 DR, Sergeant Lannus Paros found himself knee-deep in the soupy humid mire of the Evermoors.  The redeployment south had been successful and with two battalions in the swamp the allied forces were able to hold a stable front against the enemy.  For the next two years he lead the Suns on missions to route out nests of lizard men, kill giant-kin, and even thwart the plan of a necromancer.  The swamp was much deadlier than the cold woods of the north and he lost a lot of men to the things that dwell in its murky waters.  Vermin, predators, disease, and everything else in that fetid place consumed him and his men ceaselessly.  On a routine patrol mission in the fall of 1473 DR, Lannus was bitten by a Coppertooth (a variety of snake kept as pets by lizardmen).  By the time Sun Patrol made it back to dry land Lannus was pale and convulsing before slipping into a coma.  The clerics treated him as best they could, managing to at least heal the orange-tinged skin around the wound on his leg before it rotted away.  Although the healers assured his platoon commander that Lannus would not die from the wound, they regretfully informed him that it would be many weeks if not months before Lannus would wake up.

=== After Action ===

It was the end of spring in 1474 DR before Lannus woke within a temple that had been converted into an infirmary.  Over the course of days and weeks, reports starting coming in from the front claiming that the enemy was pulling back from Luruar.  Those words brought hope to the people of Everlund and allowed many to begin slowly returning to their former way of life.  Lannus now with his strength returned, the war over, and his family still unaccounted for, returned to his battalion and requested to voluntarily release from the Army of the Vale.  Given his seven years of service for Luruar and his injuries he was granted an honourary discharge from the Army of the Vale.

He spent the next four years travelling the old trade routes searching for his family.  By the fall of 1478 Lannus had found no trace of them and assumed they had died during the regional instability caused by the Septum Wars.  Defeated and at the end of his search Lannus found himself sitting in the a little tavern called the Green Tankard, in the small town of Loudwater.  He had no family to return to now and no reason to go back to Everlund.  He listened to a beautiful young girl singing in the corner of the bar as he finished another pint of honeydew ale.  He pulled Sergeant Millstone's badge out of his pocket, polished it with this thumb and said to himself, \"Maybe I'll go see what made you the man you were.\"

\"Sir, the bar will be closing soon, can I get you a room?\"  Asked a halfling from behind the bar.

\"Yes, please.  I'll be leaving first thing in the morning.\"  Lannus replied.

\"Excellent, might I ask your name so I can draw up the ledger?\" Asked the halfling.

\"Hennigan Paros, this should cover it.\" Hennigan replied placing a few silver pieces on the counter before retiring to his room.

== Daggerdale, 1481 DR ==

Hennigan Paros is currently the a member of the White Cloaks Bravo Team and recently lead a mission to investigate a series of abductions in Dwimmerholme.
