Jasper and Alexandus Meet
by Les Blackwell (DM) and Gus Miranda (as Jasper)
12-13 Mar 2024

---

LES'S SETUP:

Picking up from your other thread, Gussy;

As you enter the open gate to the small courtyard in front of Loedegan Close, it is late (you've been at supper with your family), but there are still some older boys outside.  They are looking through the wrought iron fencing that separates the courtyard of the Close from the Old Market Square, where there are still many festival goers enjoying themselves.  Seeing you coming, one boy runs to the main building, and the others meet you, their arms crossed over their chests, trying to look tough.  There are three of them, the oldest not much younger than you.  He looks strong for his age too.

"Yer not coming in here, zoo keeper!" this boy declares, eliciting support from the other two in the way of grunts and nods.  But before long, you see a familiar girl coming out of the main house with the boy that ran in.  As they approach the light of the Old Market, you can see that it is the serving girl from Quick Axes, Hanna Hearthember.  "Master Hawkford, well met."

Jasper says "Right... err... yes!  I am looking for Alexandus Ward, please.  Would you kindly tell him Jasper would like to see him.  Jasper Hawkford... of Shadowdale.  Team Chrysalis.  Tell him I am one of the people he competed against this morning."

"We know who you are, silly man.  You're a famous wizard now, and I've been instructed to bring you inside, and make sure you're treated properly. Won't you come with me?"

The boys part grudgingly, and glower at you as you are accompanied into the front drawing room of the Close.  The room is large and the paneling and tile work is fine, but the furnishings are sparse, and there is just now a small fire being lit by a pair of smaller boys who argue over the best way to build it.

Hanna has you seated and some warm tea brought, as well as a single stale biscuit.  You can hear an argument upstairs somewhere deep within the cavernous Close, and before long, Alexandus appears at the door, lead into the drawing room by Lady Blackmane and Tarra Hilltop.

Blackmane does a polite curtsey, and Tarra salutes you formally.  Alex simply frowns and grunts, and takes a seat across from you, the little fire and a few candles now adding some flickering light to the otherwise dark and cold room.

"We are not enemies, Master Hawkford" Tarra begins.  "But you already know that, which is why you are here.  We are competitors in a contest to find the best people to undertake a perilous but important mission on our eastern border.  The White Cloaks wish you well, and regardless the outcome, hope to be friends and allies at the end of this.  But I sense that you have come to discuss wizardly things with Master Ward, so I'll leave you to it, unless there is anything you require of me...?"

---

GUS'S RESPONSE - JASPER SPEAKS:

"Umm…. Yes, ma'am… you are correct that we are most definitely not enemies," Jasper's face is slightly blushed, but he almost visibly changes as the matter of his visit comes to mind, " … you are welcome to stay as my reason for coming here is the matter of the murder of the lady, Bree."

Jasper takes a pause and a deep breath, and he looks Alexandus in the eye. He is full of purpose and confidence in this moment:

"I had a brother named Maynard. He was truly gifted in magic.  Properly gifted!  His blood burned with it. The things he could do as a young boy, manipulating the Weave through his sheer will… it would leave you speechless!

And all he wanted to do, for as long as I can remember, was ride south and be a War Wizard.  Our grandmother - our father's mother - was Cormyrean, and I grew up with the fantastical stories of the great heroics and deeds of the War Wizards of old.  Their relentless battles against Zhentarim mages and Thayvan Necromancers; piratical corsairs on the coasts of the Dragonmere to the south, Orcish hordes on the Stonelands to the north, and manipulative Sembian schemers to the east.  The War Wizards and Purple Dragon Knights would best them all!

I wanted to be just like him! Of course, I couldn't.  He was a sorcerer, and I was just a farm boy working with my great-great aunt's old spell books and whatever tuition I could scrounge from whatever mage I could find passing through my Dale.  But Maynard made me want to be better.  Every time I was sick of trying to learn a spell and decided to give up, I would see him manifest that spell by sheer force of will, as easy as breathing to him, and it made me study all the harder.

He had the power to make the Weave do whatever he wished it to do.  And what he wished it to do was to help people.  He wanted to be a War Wizard in the same way other boys wanted to be Purple Knights. He could use the Weave like others could a sword, and he saw himself and the War Wizards as that chivalrous ideal that stood between order and barbarity.

Maynard did get his wish.  After many years, many pleas and many references, he did get an invitation to venture down and present himself to Stormhaven House to be examined.

On his way south, in the Tilverton Gap, someone put a knife through the back of Maynard's neck, and there was no spell, no magic in the world that could save him."

Jasper's eyes begin to well up.  He is clearly revisiting an old memory he had tried very hard to keep buried.

"I'm here because Bree's death was avoidable.  And because I believe it was premeditated. And I believe more of us will die, if we do not take steps to stop these bastards now, before they kill again.

I came here because of the stories I grew up hearing from Maynard.

We face the Redjacks next, and I believe they are in this competition for a different purpose altogether unrelated to Thistle Ridge.

It reminds me of when Amos Greenoaks put pig urine in every single one of his competitor's pies at the Cherry Harvest Festival a few years back.  He didn't have to do that.  He'd been champion 4 years running, and was sure to win again.  He was easy to catch too, since his pies were the only ones left unspoiled.  When they asked him why he'd done it, he claimed it was because he couldn't bear the thought of not winning a 5th time…"

Jasper realizes he has begun to lose his way.

"Err… anyway, what I mean is… we can be honourable competitors on the field. But right now we have also become prey for a nefarious reason I don't yet understand.  But I can't think of anyone more skilled and capable than you to help us stop this Redjack madness before they get out of hand, Alexandus."

---

LES'S RESPONSE - ALEXANDUS REPLIES:

Hillborn nods, and takes a seat to listen, Lady Blackmane politely dismisses herself.

The Chaplain and the War Wizard listen closely to you, and you can see the demeanour of the latter is unchanged by the moving and personal story you share with the pair of them.  [Jasper has Cha -1, and Les made a roll]

However, Chaplain Hillborn smiles and grabs your hand, and says "We're all willing to help, aren't we, Alex?"  The dour War Wizard huffs and then gives a slow nod.

"Let us pretend as though we're good friends, you and I" Alexandus begins, looking right down his nose at Jasper.  "We don't face the Redjacks until the 26th.  And I'm not willing to face them in the street.  By the gods, that murderer took a head off, even when a dozen clerics were in attendance to keep it from happening.  If you want my help, I'll give you this advice; go back to SheepBuggerydale or HaySeedDale or wherever it is you come from, and meddle not in the affairs of your betters."

The Chaplain scowls at the war wizard, and offers a reconciliatory smile at Jasper.  "He doesn't mean that, he's still just sore from a humiliating defeat.  What he means to say is 'how can we be of service'?"

---

PLAYER COMMENTARY:

Stephen (12 Mar): *chortle* This (totally unintentional) feud that Jasper has running with Alexandus is a real highlight of the game for me right now. I mentioned to Todd this morning that I'd been thinking of Alexandus as Frank Grimes to Jasper's Homer. Absolutely classic.

Les (13 Mar): That doesn't bode well for Alexandus... [attached: Frank Grimes image]

Gus (13 Mar): That's awesome.  I didn't really think of that and now's all I can think about.  Poor Jasper as Homer… Anyway, truth is I had an idea of why I wanted to see Alexandus, and then I forgot all about what that was in the days after.  But I (Gus) am so glad that it just ended up annoying Alexandus. Jas + Alex = BFFs!

---
Source: Email thread "Jasper and Alexandus Meet", Les Blackwell, Gus Miranda, Stephen Robertson, 12-13 Mar 2024
