Jeska and Sir Rowan
by Scott Mclaren
25 Jan 2025

---

It is late night at Greenwood farm.. Jeska approaches Sir Rowan at watch..

The huge man lays sleepily on the ground.. apparently unconcerned of his duty.

Jeska approaches silently... her ability to sneak is.. well elvish...

"Yes Mistress? May I be of service?" says the Knight.
 He rolls his head toward her, looks her in the eye, and she stops in her tracks.
Jeska is not surprised as she knows his astounding ability to observe his surroundings.
(I did make a roll.. might have kicked him.. but he gets a +2 to all skill checks as my hireling)

Jeska smiles.
"Sir Rowan, Castellan of The Embassy of Myth Drannor, we need to speak"

Sir Rowan *winks* .. "Can it wait till after my nap, I am on watch after all?"

Jeska smiles.. a true smile.. the moonlight dances in her eyes.
"I have heard you are commissioning a suit of armour, at your own expense from what Chrysalis pays you, is this true?"

Sir Rowan stands, then drops to one knee. He looks Jeska in the eye.
"Well yes m'lady, just all the better to protect Mari... and the embassy.. as you bade me do... well..  when you made me Castellan... was I at fault?"

(Jeska almost tears up at this human's true sincerity.. Can this man be real? Is anyone truly altruistic?.. a human at that...)

Jeska smiles, and places her hand on his head.
She then muffles his hair.

"Rowan, my Rowan, you silly fool, you may be the only reason Chrysalis survives this campaign. You should want the armour, to protect 'YOU'... here"

Jeska hands Sir Rowan the +2 Potency rune.

Jeska smiles.
"This is a gift, not a payment, and ... it is a Thank You... my Knight.. no.. Our Knight.."

---

Todd Burry (as Ser Rowan) replies, 26 Jan 2025:

Ser Rowan stares at the rune and gulps deeply, his chest rising and falling with the weight of unspoken fears and newfound resolve.

"I'll finally be a true Purple Knight," he says, his voice thick with emotion. He pauses, a flicker of hesitation crossing his face, before he continues, louder and steadier. "Nay, better. A Green Knight I will be. Friend to Daggerdale and servant of Myth Drannor."

His words linger in the air. Then, slowly, his lips curl into an uncharacteristically small yet always humble smile. He turns his gaze to the governess, who watches him knowingly.

"If I'm honest, Governess," he begins, his voice lowering, "it's you who gives me the courage to charge into any battle, no matter how grim. This rune just may let my body match the mettle you've always seen in me."

For a moment, the room is quiet save for the faint hum of the rune, its glow reflecting off Ser Rowan's green tabard. His eyes remain locked on hers, brimming with a rare sincerity, before he turns back to the rune, shoulders squared and ready for whatever lies ahead.

---
Source: Email thread "Jeska and Sir Rowan", Scott Mclaren and Todd Burry, 25-26 Jan 2025
