thumb
Information collected by Loremaster Kennyth Thames while studying in The Monastery of Sundered Faiths in 1381 DR, The Year of the Starving

From information that I could glean from scrolls left in the woeful excuse for a library here, I found a few references to The Nexus.  From what I have been able to pull from the information available, The Nexus is an old dwarven construct.  VERY old.  It’s possible that The Nexus is was created over a millennia ago by the Helgorod clan.  Landobarh Helgorod appears to be the dwarf that was most invested in the creation of The Nexus.

To put it simply, The Nexus is similar in shape to a wagon wheel, laying on it’s side, deep under the Graypeaks.  The spokes are tunnels and the hub of the wheel is an intersection of course and from what I have been able to learn, possibly a central location where access to the tunnels are controlled.  Landobarh’s dream was to create a structure that allowed for select individuals to travel unhindered by terrain and unharried by the foul denizens of the Graypeaks.  Many believe it to be a tale and nothing else howev er I was able to sink a shaft, far beneath the monastery and I have been able to find one of the “spokes”.  It took help from the Gondsman, Gromdul Whispersmith as well as a number of his dwarven companions but I am quite positive that we have found one of the tunnels that indeed leads to The Nexus.

I only stumbled upon the existence of The Nexus due to my researching of The Spire.  In one letter from Hanalhaos to Shyruil, she mentioned that there had been some trouble in The Nexus of late and that the caravans will need additional bodies to ensure that supplies arrive at The Spire.

I have yet been able to find the time to travel the spoke and indeed confirm the existence of The Nexus and in turn, locate the spoke that leads to The Spire but with my work on Tremalkin wrapping up, I will soon have the time to explore the fascinating underside of the Graypeaks.

I have been unable to ascertain the exact reason or reasons behind The Nexus falling out of use and The Nexus falling out of common knowledge in the Graypeak region for that matter.}}
