Kythorn 1, 1455 DR Compiled from notes written by Decker Blackmane many years after the incident. 
GFD Notes: 
I found this in the Yellow Abbey. In its native form, this is a sheaf of papers in a small box, and I am not sure I was meant to find it. I could not find it again several days after I did, and I expect it was moved to the Historic Wing. 
Decker Blackmane wrote this note in 1471, along with nearly 100 pages of other memories he had from the 1450's and 60's. Most of them revolved around the constant struggle to keep back the oaks of Cormanthor, and dealing with growing numbers of orcs in the mountains to the west of him. This is the only account of the wedding I found, which is surprising given the number of people there, and the long shadow it cast on the dale. The deaths of so many Whitegates and Foresters that day ensured that the events of 1481 would spell the end of these lines. 
But again, I get ahead of myself; the people of the dales do not share the patrilineal sense of generation that is so often observed elsewhere. In fact, the enemies of the dale seem to have thrived on a matrilineal and matriarchal system that survives generation after generation. 
I am ashamed to say that I didn't get the chance to talk to Decker. He is still alive, and the head of his farm. A few months in the dale was not enough to get around to every loose end 
-GFD 
"It was a fine day in the summer; the first of Kythorn, and no one had the slightest idea that such a lovely day would end in the partial extermination of a family, much less The Family. 
We were all at Liberty Hill Farm, and had been for a tenday; this was a wedding that was finally going to see the Forester family joined with the Whitegates, and hopefully put an end to the petty squabbles they had inflicted on us for a generation. I think there must have been nearly 150 people from afield in attendance, on top of the couple-hundred at the farm, and there was no difficulty feeding them; the Whitegates were as prosperous as ever. The noble scions, Loedegan and Madigan were as capable as farmers as they were warriors. 
Old Ardelusk always liked to have these types of ceremonies at the end of the day, rather than the beginning. He said it was better to show your resolve when the day is worn than to be optimistic in a bright morning sun. There were tremendous theological differences between this and the upper clergy, or so I'm told; I didn't give a turnip for the carrying on of those zealots then or now. And anyway, Lanya was from a good Chauntean family (the main problem in the first place) and they always loved an evening service. 
The other thing that Ardelusk, may he ride with honour in the world-hereafter, always insisted upon, was a service beneath the Paladin's Cenotaph. He used to make a show of reciting the names of the men who died so that he could be free, and Loedegan had taken up the same reverence. In fact, I think he moved the times of these major services to the afternoon just so they could be held beneath the Cenotaph, which is on the west side of the farm. 
Now, the Sun Blades weren't what they are now, and I'll save my commentary on that for another time. It was still mostly militia doing the job of protecting the people, and that's the way it should have been. Who knows how things would have turned out 
Anyway, the "Bright Spears", as they would come to be known in later years, the 7th Company of Sun Blades, were the first company ever stationed in a fortress farm, and Liberty Hill was the first to have them. No surprise, really. These men patrolled the edge of the forest all day long. They were accompanied by many a knight; the Order was already strong then, and there were 2 Rides in attendance, and there would have been more if it wasn't for trouble in the Wastelands in those days. 
During the day, a couple of small skirmishes were fought; it seemed to us then that a small band of listless orcs had wandered into the area at exactly the wrong time, for the sake of both parties; we slew many orcs that day, but there isn't a bride to be found that wants orc-slaying on her wedding day (more's the pity, really). 
I guess in hind-sight we could all say "Why didn't Loedegan call the whole thing off? Or Magigan or Argent? They were all there and the news of the skirmishes escaped nobody, even though all the soldiers came back in one piece, most jubilant at the victories they had won. We didn't know what was coming, or how devious a trap the little band of orcs had been the bait for. 
So as the sun was going down, its last rays cascading through the mountains and making the Cenotaph light up with many reflecting colours, all the men-at-arms were fully armoured and arrayed. In fact, to make sure that nothing would interrupt the wedding of his favourite niece, Loedegan was out in the fields riding with a group of knights. They were the first to die. 
From the bushes, a group of screaming orcs flew into the field, and we thought they were charging into battle. Loedegan and his men thought the same, and rode them down quickly. However, they were not charging, but routing; on their heels were a score of armoured nightmares on spectral steeds, and these crashed into our knights mercilessly, and hacked them from their mounts. I recall seeing the brilliant helm of Loedegan, which has not been recovered to this day, fall to the ground, and only later learned that his head was still in it. 
Enraged at the massacre of his men, and at the affront for an attack during the wedding of his grand daughter, Madigan too rode out. He rounded up most of the nearby men, mindfully leaving a couple of 
platoons of militia and a couple of knights to protect the rest of the people, who were now mostly retreating into the safety of the farm walls. 
The reserves of our men were only halfway across the hay fields when more soldiers, some spectral, some clearly (as discovered later) bodily undead, emerged from the forest; there was a division of archers that light up the gloaming darkness with a hail of pale-lighted arrows that fell among the reserves. Madigan survived the hail, though ¾ of his men did not. To his credit, he never looked back, and stayed focused on the engagement before him; a desperate combat of mounted nightmares and doomed men. 
It was at this point that the clergy realized what was happening, and despite orders from Madigan to the contrary, many of them also rode out to face the undead, bringing their divine light to bear on this evil foe. The battle in the field was desperate and bitter, but the arrival of Argent and his clerics destroyed many of the lesser monsters, and drove off the rest. However, that had been the plan all along. 
At that very moment, in the midst of what people remained at the wedding tent and tables, which was many a concerned Whitegate and Forester alike, a new enemy struck. Appearing as though from an evening mist, just as the last rays of light vanished, the Greatest Swordsman in the Realms appeared. I swear on my mother's apple-pie recipe, it was him; we've all seen pictures of Dorian, and I was close enough to see the black veins on his undead face, and the cold malevolent eyes of the monster. He looked about for the greatest opponents first, and this as well supports my assertion (and many have argued against me) that it was Dorian there; he behaved just like the hero of legend, and began dispatching the Knights of the Order that stayed to protect us; he made a sport of them, showing them their weaknesses in each stroke, and toying with them like a wolf in a rabbit cage. Occasionally, he would take a back-handed sweep of his blade which would behead or disembowel an unfortunate victim. Thus, Solis and Ardelusk II died, and many a brave Forester and many a brave militiaman. 
When he was very nearly done dicing up those that stood against his lone fury, he set his focus on the battle out in the field. I have always assumed that those were his minions out there, though I have some suspicion that those in the field played for the opposite team during their naturally-appointed years. However, he looked out and called for Loedegan and Madigan, challenging them. His minions had done their work a little too well, though; the brother Knights were both dead. Only Argent then lived to answer the call (Luminous was at the Castle, attending matters there with all due protocol), and he came riding back, leaving the desperate struggle in the field behind him. 
As Argent drew nearer the undead monster of Dorian, the thing affected a look of concern. The sun again shone behind the charging cleric, through some trick of the gloaming twilight sky or some divine wrath I know not, and it blinded the monster. It drove him back, and he stumbled into the Cenotaph, and there isn't a soul who was standing on that wall that day looking at that spectacle who will ever put it out of their heads, though we have been asked to do exactly that. The monster began to weep blood, and he threw down his sword and began to beat upon the Paladin's Cenotaph like a petulant child, and his howling and shrieks of unearthly torment drove most of us from the wall. 
Dorian collapsed at the base of that cenotaph, and Argent rode right over him, and dismounted expertly despite his bulky plate armour. He began to glow with Divine Wrath, and again, none could stand the wall for the spectacle before us. When I again looked, Argent stood there alone. Dorian, if such it truly was, had vanished just as he had come, and his blade with him. 
With the route of the terrible leader of this undead cadre, the battle in the field wrapped up; many of the undead likewise vanished, and others crumbled to dust, leaving only a handful of confused but thankful warriors standing alive in amidst untold carnage, just as light again left the valley, and all was dark. 
Now, I alone confronted Argent about this later. "That was Dorian of Sembian, the same hero that decorates a hundred hearths in this dale, or I'm as blind as a bat, cleric!" I insisted. 
"Perhaps it was. It is a sour matter if that is the truth, though in the end I drove him back, and I have a way to keep him bottled up that will cost us dearlyI mustn't tarry, in fact." Argent was clearly somewhere else in his head. This is understandable; his father and uncle and too many other relations to mention had just been slaughtered before his eyes, and though the battle was over, he had some secret mission to see to immediately, and he scarcely took note of me when I asked him what we were to do. 
"Clean up this mess" he replied flatly. " 
"Bring in the dead, and destroy the remains of our foes. I must leave immediately. I leave Perspicuus in charge of matters here, and would apologize if there was time. There is not." He rode off, but I made a parting shot; 
"I thought you Sun worshipers didn't keep secrets, Cleric!" He stopped his horse and wheeled about on me, and his look suggested he might ride me down like the monster he had driven off. "Just this once, Blackmane, we'll keep this quiet. Whisper not a word of this to anyone; this dale does not need its heroes made villains, and you don't need me as an enemy." 
I kept mum about this, of course. It pained me to do so. Over time, the few whispered rumours that Dorian of Sembian, Greatest Swordsman in the Realms, had returned from the grave to destroy the Whitegate family, slowly faded out. I helped them to vanish as though spectral wisps in a gloomy night, insisting that the monster was not Dorian. 
I have always hated Argent for this dishonesty, but it might have been for the best. After all, this dale doesn't need its heroes made villains, and I don't need Argent as an enemy.
