==The Dirty Dozen==

\"We were the best.

...

Pride?

...

No. Just the truth.

You had to be, get it? After all, if you were anything but the best, that swamp would swallow you whole.

See, Cormyr and Sembia, they don't have an official border, no boundary line marked out clean and clear. All they had was the Vast Swamp, which was anything but clean and clear. A mess of problems, that place.

...

Well, technically it's Daerlun's problem, not Sembia's. Not since Cormyr made them a city state free of Netheril, but it's still Sembia's front door, and so there we were.

The Dirty Dozen.

Soldiers. Old men and young lads, run ragged and weary head-first into our own graves.

And for what?

A goddamn cesspit that no one wanted, but neither side could risk giving up. We were little more than well-equipped highway men. Bandits and mercenaries. Disciplined savages of the highest calibur. And that was how we liked it.

Conflict between Cormyr and Sembia was offically over, had been for years, but it wasn't a real truce. A politican's facade, a half-hearted peace treaty. The bowstrings were still tight on our end, the swords only half-sheathed. We patrolled our side, and Cormyr kept an eye on theirs. We clashed on occasion, but it was a staring contest for the most part.

Of course, skirmishes and intimidation weren't our only reasons for being there. You didn't get assigned to the Dirty Dozen unless you were a hard, hard man, and that suited our purpose just fine. This world we live in is an awful place, after all. Bad things love the dark, nasty places and it was me and my men's job to keep them right where they belonged, away from the towns and the hamlets and the meadows where children play.

Lizard men and orcs were the least of our concern, but the most common fare. Me and my men received a flat pay each tenday, but if we went out of our way to clear out the... 'harsher' inhabitants of the swamp, we would make fine coin, and nothing got my blood running faster in those days than the sound of a crowded wallet.
The undead, they were everywhere. Same with trolls, and even a few grell. Disgusting things.

My boys and I even took out a hydra once. The beast had the bright idea to head south to the Way of the Manticore. It must have had its way with at least a score of travellers before my men rolled onto the scene and gave it a good what-for. It was tragic, of course.

Tragic, but lucrative.

And then there were the wisps. Swamp lights, ghosts, I don't know what, but they sure were pretty to look at. I know other squads lost men to 'em, wandering off into the night with a fool's grin on their faces, but my boys were smarter than that.

Not smarter than that bog hag though. Poor Redrick was the fastest swamprunner I knew before that night. Both legs and everything inbetween turned green and rotted right off. After that, the captain had rules set up. No inter-squad relationships allowed, especially with lunatic shapeshifting muck-bitches wandering the woods at night.

Torm's teeth, I still have nightmares about that one.

Anyways, if you played it smart and kept an eye on where you were stepping, you'd go far with us. At least, that was the idea. Ten years of my life in that swamp, from the day my mother died to the day I left, ten years. The Dirty Dozen and Captain Harlo were the closest thing I had to family.

Fate be damned, something had to happen to ruin it.

== Guardian of the Skull Staff ==
right
So one day along comes the Captain with a grim look on his face and a stranger in tow. Stranger's a Shadovar, one of our Netherese 'benefactors', here on a special mission for the glory of our... brother nations. Cutting to the chase, the grey-skinned bastard flashes me a smile and asks,

'Sergeant Creed, have you ever heard of the Staff of Skulls?'

I knew he meant the Skull Staff. I answered yes, like the good soldier I was.

A massive tree trunk, at least 25 feet tall, jutting out of the ground all snaggletoothed Used as a territory marker by orcs over a hundred years ago, the savages covered the damn thing with a mountain of skulls and bones and who knows what else. I had no idea what he wanted with it, but just knowing where it was seemed to satisfy the man.

'My name is Horuteph'- he bowed deeply - 'and you and your men will guide me there post-haste.'

Who was I to argue? It was only deep in the heart of Shadowscale territory after all, but of course that didn't seem to matter much. Pay was pay, and neither myself nor Captain Harlo would deny a Shadovar's request. Us Sembians were smarter than that. At least, the ones who preferred their heads on their shoulders were.

So we marched, through the muck, waist-to-shoulder-high at some points. Dry land was a miracle in the Vast Swamp, and by the time we reached Shadowscale territory the Dirty Dozen was as clean as their name implied. Despite the conditions, our ward Horuteph had not a speck on him or his fancy robes. I don't recall seeing him even so much as touch the ground. Damned wizards. It riled me even more that he didn't lend us a hand as we hacked and hammered our way towards our destination. Lizardmen in those parts were superstitious bastards, so even some show magic would have helped.

What really bothered me, though, was how confused the Shadovar looked. With every group of lizardmen my men and I cut down, his face creased into an ever-deepening frown. Something was off, and by the time we arrived at the Skull Staff we could all see why.

A damned bloody dragon.

A black, horned terror curled around the pillar on a mountain of skulls. Terrified squeaks escaped from some of my boys, but a hard glance shut them all up right quickly. The thick, gnarled trees that ringed the flooded glade were filled with lizardmen, all of them cooing an' hissing an' gesturing at the dragon who had quite obviously settled into a place of worship among the scaled savages. Understanding dawned on the Shadovar's face, and I watched with knots in my stomach as he approached the dragon.

He spoke a strange phrase, unintelligible. The dragon replied in a gutteral, hissing language. Horuteph smiled and spread his hands.

'I am afraid my Draconic is... sub-par at best. Do you understand me?' He said, quite calm.

The dragon grunted and spoke, raising its massive head from the pile of skulls.

'I do. I assume you have come for it, Hand of Netheril?' The dragon spoke around the words as though it were chewing on something disgusting. The knot in my stomach was growing tighter by the second. I could taste bile on the back of my tongue. Something was wrong here. I glanced at my men - their faces reflected my thoughts completely.

'Indeed I have, and may I say your worshippers have grown most unruly of late. My escorts had a difficult time leading me here.'

The dragon bowed it's head.

'Apologies. Were you at risk?'

'Oh my, no, of course not. However, dead soldiers cannot lead me where I need to go. It is fortunate I did not have to find replacements.'

'So it is, wizard. As per our agreement, I have guarded the Lost Refuge in anticipation of your arrival. Shall we proceed?'

'Ah, yes. The way is quite apparent from here. Please, lead the way.'

Horuteph gestured towards a pathway that had been roughly hewn into the swamp and trees. Just behind the dragons girth I could discern the crumbling spires of an abandoned keep.

Darkness swam overhead like a stain on the sky.

The black dragon nodded and climbed down from his bed, sending a deluge of skulls rolling down past me and my men. We made to follow the mage and dragon, but were halted by the reptile's cold, piercing gaze. Almost as an afterthought it seemed, he looked back to the mage and asked a question that chilled me through to the bone.

'What of the humans. Are they to be... discarded?'

Horuteph glanced backwards and clicked his tongue. He dismissed us with a wave of his hand.

'As you say. They have served their purpose with unmistakable zeal. Unfortunately, none can know of the portal.'

'Destroy them.'

==Stand in the Swamp==

One agonizing heartbeat passed by.

Then my crossbow snapped, and Horuteph's hand exploded into a bloody pulp, spraying the air with skin and bones.

He screamed, clutching his wrist, and set off down the path at a staggering sprint.

The battle began. Hissing. Clawing.

Lizardmen scrambled out of the trees brandishing fetishes and bones and any other weapon they could get their hands on. The dragon was nowhere to be seen. I assumed it was following after that Netherese bastard, and had no time to think otherwise.

I turned and planted a bolt between the eyes of a hulking lizard. Jeck on my left parried a fierce thrust with a spear and chopped his blade into his attacker's shoulder, nearly splitting the scaled freak in two. I heard Karlos cry out behind me and turned to watched him fall. I stared in horror as they ate into him, ripping his mouth from his face as he screamed and struggled.

I saw no fear in his eyes. He screamed with rage, and kept on punching until there was nothing left to fuel him. It's how my boys all went down.

Every last one.

The Dirty Dozen met it's end under an sea of scales and claws. I don't know how long we lasted, but I was the only one left, spitting blood and curses with every breath. My weapons were gone, but I had no need for them. The last lizardmen I took down hit the earth without a throat, eyes gouged out and broken from head to toe. As that sour flesh rolled onto my tongue, I gazed around me and saw nothing but desolation. Thrice-chewed hands reaching out of blood-stained pools. Entrails draping corpses like macabre festivale ribbon. My men weren't buried in soil - they were buried in corpses, and at the sight of this I found myself losing all control.

Surrounded by death, all I could do was break down and retch. I had seen the aftermath of battles. I had killed before. Cormyr fought fair. They fought honourably. These lizardmen were nothing like them. They fought like animals, savage beasts, devoid of restraint, devoid of control.

It was like nothing I had ever seen before.

==Aftermath==

I collected myself first, barely, then set about collecting my men. What remained, what I could find. I dragged the leg of my corporal out of a lizard's gullet, half devoured in the midst of battle. The creature's bulging eyes told me he had suffocated himself in a frenzy, like a hungry fish eating itself to death.

When I had finally gathered the Dirty Dozen for the last time, I lashed their remains together, slung as many as I could carry over each shoulder and dragged the rest out of that damned swamp. I wasn't myself... it was all red, everything. Blood and bones, ash and dust, on my tongue and in my gut. My back ached, my muscles screamed. The weight and the walk and the swamp itself were all trying to kill me, but I had to get them out. I had to get my men on solid ground.

Hours...? Days...? I wore on, time passed, and I found myself out of the marshlands and into Cormyr proper. I had no shovel, no means to dig, but I had tinder. I gathered wood, whatever I could find, even the wet stuff. I wasn't thinking right.

The fire was a damned mess, smoke everywhere, the rancid stink choking and blinding. The bodies wouldn't burn... they just...they wouldn't burn. And then the rain started. It was horrific, but my men needed their dignity. I wouldn't leave them, I wouldn't let the jackals have them. Crows perched around me, leering, hungry.
So I dug. And I laughed, laughed like a lunatic. I don't think that smile left my face for a moment that night. If there were any creatures about looking for trouble, they must have heard me and ran, ran for the hills, because under that moon I was a fiend.

Fingers bleeding and broken, I piled the half-melted, half-savaged remains of my friends, my family, into the ground and covered them up once and for all. Mud, stone and my own sweat and blood marked their shallow grave.

And then I slept. When I woke it was night once again. An entire day I had rested, but I was not myself once more. I felt... hollow. The back of my mind ached, and the only soothing thoughts I could muster were those of revenge.

Thoughts of revenge, and of murder.

I made my way back to that place, the Skull Staff. I was placid as a calm sea, making my way through the battlefield with an undivided purpose. The bodies of the lizardmen were gone, taken by their kin to be buried or devoured, whatever their rites were. The only signs of conflict were the stagnant, bloody pools that thickened under clouds of hungry flies. I walked to where Horuteph had stood when my shot pierced his hand, and bent down. When I rose, I grasped his severed finger bone in my fist and made a vow to the spirits of my men.

A hundred Shadovar for every one. Each one of the Dirty Dozen that had died that day. That was their worth. Their dignity and honour would be restored.

I placed that bone in my pocket and left everything behind that day. The Swamp, Sembia, and even myself.

I made another vow, a selfish one, just for me.

Horuteph, that one-handed bastard, would breathe his last words on the end of my blade.

I patted my pocket and smiled. One thousand ninety-nine to go.\"

<nowiki> * * * </nowiki>

== To Castle Radiance==

\"Vanion.\"

Creed glanced at the swordsman next to him and smiled.

\"My apologies, Durandal. I lost my train of thought. What... what did you say just now?\"

The strange man stared at him for a moment. He was a disquieting one, to be certain. He rarely blinked, eyes always lingering, unwavering and unfocused as a blind mans, yet they cut like knives. He had lowered the book he was reading. His other hand was wrapped around that bleak looking sword he never let go of.

\"I had just finished asking you what your plans were, and then you proceeded to stare longingly into your soup bowl for thirty-seven seconds.\" Durandal's lips didn't always seem to match his words, Creed had noticed.

\"Disregarding the fact that you were actually timing me --\"

\"Does it bother you?\" Durandal interjected.

\"No, just...nevermind. Anyways, I'm on my way to Castle Radiance.\"

The swordsman nodded.

\"Why?\"

Vanion had met Durandal a day past. Both were on the road to Highmoon, and after some polite conversation, the young man had decided to, for lack of a better word, 'stalk' Vanion for the length of the journey, to the exact same inn no less. He was polite enough and spent most of the time buried in his own business, but there was definately something off about him.

\"Because I hear there's going to be war in Daggerdale. War needs soldiers, and soldiers need pay. And I am a very poor man.\"

Duradal leered at him.

\"I see, you are a mercenary. Castle Radiance. Is there a library there?\"

\"I can't say. Never been. I imagine so, I mean, it's a very large place from what I've heard.\"

\"You imagine so?\"

Vanion shifted uncomfortably under the man's scrutiny. \"Yes. I think.\"

\"Well, despite your obvious uncertainty, I shall accompany you there. I have grown fond of your company, and my research will no doubt benefit from the selection at the Castle.\" Durandal returned his attention to the book in his hand.

Smile never sliding from his weary face, Vanion returned to his meal and finished it up with several messy slurps. Pushing the bowl aside, he leaned himself onto the counter and dropped a few coppers into the dish.

\"So... what are you reading, friend?\" The soldier queried.

Durandal perked up at the word, but kept his gaze on the pages before him.

\"Friend. Hmmmm.\" He mulled it over for a moment, then nodded. \"Acceptable. I am reading a book.\"

\"What book are you reading?\" Vanion asked, careful to keep his voice level.

\"Raumathar and Narfell: A Study of Archaeology.\"

\"What for, if you don't mind my asking?\"

\"Nonsense, I do not mind. I am looking for a solution.\"

\"To what?\"

\"My condition.\" Durandal had placed the book in his lap and was staring at Vanion once again. No emotion was visible on his face, as usual.

\"You look fine to me, aside from your tan. Or lack thereof.\"

\"Looks can be deceiving, Vanion Creed.\"

\"Can they now?\"

\"Things are rarely as they appear at first glance. Truth is often stranger than fiction when one gazes beneath the superficial layer. I am certain you of all people must understand this.\"

The swordsman resumed his reading without another word, leaving Vanion confused and bothered. Vanion knew what he was, deep down inside, and his odd companion seemed to have an inkling of this as well.

A man who wore a smiling face and friendly disposition like they were a costume.

A hollow vessel, just waiting to be filled.

His mind was racing, heart beating fast. Vanion had to press his fingers against the hardwood counter just to stop them from trembling.

These hands.

These hands would be stained with the blood of Netheril.

The anticipation was killing him.
