This letter was discovered on the corpse of an unidentified man, dead on the Tethyamar Road, 1 mile south of Crossed Blades Farm, on the 15th of Nightal, 1479 DR. The letter was being clutched by the dead man's hand, but it was partially destroyed by whatever creature tore apart the messenger.

30th day of Uktar, Year of the Ageless One

:Banitt,

I sit at the desk in my study at the Doriankin manor in Shadowdale, resolved to tell my tale to you with as much composure as I can muster in my haste, so that you might act accordingly.  It has been a month since my return to this haven, yet my hands do not cease their trembles.  It is all I can do to pen these words as legible as I may, so that you might understand the peril.

I fear.

I fear!

The tranquility of Shadowdale is at an end for me.  I can feel it.  I can hear death coming on the wings of those ravens.  I can taste the doom blowing south on that winter wind from Castle Daggerdale!

I have seen him and I am afraid, Banitt!  He knows me now, and he will hunt me.

Please listen to my tale, and heed my warning, lest you be fool enough to follow the same road.

When last we met at the Crossed Blades Farm, I had made up my mind to search the path that led to Castle Daggerdale, the ancestral home of my human family.  I required answers to the many questions I have long since held about the disappearance and fates of my brother and his children.  I hired some men, and set off down the road.

Banitt, read closely the words I write to you now; speak them aloud and listen to their weight in all their horror:

Cormathor does not venture into this place!

I must repeat this to you:

The forest of Cormathor, which has ceaselessly, relentlessly reclaimed the lands of the Dales in these years past, does not dare advance onto the grounds of Castle Daggerdale!

The forest itself is afraid!

We went forward into the castle grounds, which were overtaken, not by the proud oaks and gentle ferns of Cormanthor, but by gnarled and twisted growths of I don't-

I can still hear the unkind rattles and cracks of the few ravens that dared come near this place-

To the ruins of the cursed keep we walked.  As if in a dream.  I do not know why, but I was compelled to enter... as if I was being made welcome home.  And this in turn, made me command my men forward to follow me into the darkness, and down to the very deepest catacombs...

And I knew that it was to the deepest catacombs that I needed to go directly.  It was not I who was coming to see the tomb of Dorian, but rather
}}

... and here a page or two is obviously missing ...

It was as a last resort!  The hordes nearly upon me!  My magic spent!  My blade broken!

I rallied, brought myself to full height and proclaimed what I knew to be Truth:

“I am Lord of this place!”

And that miraculous gambit brought my attackers to a halt!  A halt I used to retreat down the path and effect my escape out to the road and all the way down to what I perceived to be the safety of my home here in Shadowdale.

But Banitt, I know that is not possible.

My brother and his children died because Castle Daggerdale cannot have two Lords.  He knows I exist, and he will come for me... or rather, he will make me go to him.

I am not safe.

I beg you, Banitt, make sure no other living soul enters those grounds.  For the sake of us all, make sure no one ever rides that path again!  Ensure that the light of Amauntor shines brightly over that land.  I am convinced that Pauldron and his Shields are not strong enough for this!

I have entrusted my Steward to dispatch this letter to you by the fastest rider available out of Shadowdale.  As for me, I depart imminently for Myth Drannor.  I will seek answers and safety there.

May Saint Maturin protect us all,

— MournGrym Doriankin}}

==Banitt's Reply==
thumb|300px

Correspondence sent to the Estate of Doriankin in early winter 1480, was returned in late Alturiak, with an explanation from the post master that:

The Estate burned to the ground, every last out building, this winter, and there are no survivors or claimants to the property.}}

Correspondence sent to Myth Drannor via the Myth Drannor Embassy was likewise returned, on Mirtul 25, 1480 DR, stating that:

Master Doriankin, regrettably, has not been seen here in many years.  We are unsure of his present whereabouts, but have dispatched a pair of agents for the detail.  We would appreciate hearing of his discovery if it is made by you, before us.}}
