The day of 27 Eleint, 1372 dawned overcast and grim in the Dalelands town of Dagger Falls. Many of the locals claim that they woke up that morning to great crashes of thunder and lightning. They claim that they knew something was going to happen that day, and almost all good citizens report that they felt very anxious as the sky went from deep black to grey. Here is the report of one man, nameless now, in history, who was witness to the events of that day.

From my second floor apartment, I have windows facing south, east and north, and saw everything that day.

I couldn’t sleep well that night. A great storm was in the south, and it was drawing nearer all night. It must have woken me about 4 hours before sunrise, and I was compelled to just watch it roll in. No rain came with the storm, but this was a cleansing storm like this joyless town had not seen in decades.

As it drew nearer, it became more intense. I suppose it was the anger of the Liberators that drew the lightning and thunder. For as they drew to the gates, it seemed like the gates of hell were about to be kicked in, and a maelstrom about to unleash itself. I was nervous as hell just then. Another crash was heard, and I can’t say that it was thunder or the crashing of the gates at the Eastern Bailey, but that Liberator's Storm blew right down the street. I ran from window to window. I ran to my eastern window to watch the gates, but a gust of wind blew me nearly back into my room, and the lightning struck again. There was thunder on the street, and I don’t know now if it was thunder from the clouds, or from the hooves of all the great horses that charged down that newly cobbled street, or both, but the Storm raced by my north window, and I could see the Heart of the Storm. Those men, the Liberators, flying right up to the Tower, and I knew the Gates of Hell had been kicked in, and the Maelstrom was upon us. I was scared, and I noticed shutters across the street being slammed shut. The few people on the street, citizen, soldier, man and woman, all fled and hid from the Maelstrom of the Liberators.

I know not what transpired up at the Tower, but the Liberators soon came back into my field of view, north up the street, knocking at the doors of Brotherhood Tower. The Maelstrom was about to reach a crescendo, and I confess that I hid myself at that time. A violence unimaginable broke loose up the street, and all I could do, all any one could do, was just stay in their homes and pray to all the gods that were watching.

Well, our prayers were heard. By the end of that day, the Maelstrom was over, and Baron Drake and the cult of Iyachtu Xvim was no more.}}
