Discussion with Blaze Whitegate about his memories of Thistle Ridge as a young magistrate
The Thistle Ridge families were very tight-lipped about the hunting accident
Aisling had killed herself by the time of Blaze’s visit
He heard that she had done the deed at the Lodge
Most of the Sembian families were no longer living in the main settlement. They were out on their own farms.
The hunting accident took place in autumn
There is a Mausoleum at the Lodge
Whitegate visited sometime after Highharvestide
He discussed the training at the Clarandal Academy had been handed over to an old man from the Far East
Sister Samantha trained at the Phylactery
Blaze will look into the chain of custody re: Malveau’s report.
Whitegate was uncomfortable about what happened with the Alavaxi
Many felt they had spent too much time in the shadow
Regarding the Purple Worm attack
He believes the Orbis Imperiosis is at large and was used to gain control of the Purple Worm
The worm (and its brood, presumably) were directed with a Slave Orb that must be within 20 miles of Dagger Falls
Use of the slave orb allegedly requires the sacrifice of a powerful cleric or mage
The gargoyles in the Greyhame mountains were observed returning to their roosts. Population 40-50, with 20-30 adults (many of whom we took out in Dagger Falls)
Patrols
9th Company patrols the road, but only as far as Gandrim’s Hold
3rd Company is the Dagger Falls garrison
7th Company, 4th Platoon is the “Bright Spears” – they patrol the Eastern Farms
8th Company, patrols the Southern Farms

Our platoon: 24 Sunblades = 1 platoon = 4 squads of 6 (2 foot, 2 horse – non-mounted squads have 3 Foresters each)
Forge Farmountain
Madigara Dale, Magistrate from Foothills Farm
Phoebe Birchgrove, 3rd Sgt. (Forge’s aide-de-camp)
Ivy Thickwickle, 1st Sgt.

Redjacks
Have begun to be referred to in town as the Redjokes
Redoubling their efforts in Tethyamar
Badrick’s Wharfage will dredge the harbor and build us a wharf

Karm is the Bugbear in the Tower

3 ghosts
Poppy Sweetberry
Lily Clarandal (b. 1432)
Lilac Alavandor (b. 1432)
Flower names very common in Thistle Ridge

Vessuvian
Maeliticus and Surath are Darelunian names
Netherese sought to control Daerlun, but only managed to lock it down in 1407

Notes on Zerk
Short term benefits
Made from Vaasa poppies
Addictive
Vallia?
Drained when done.
Purplish-black honey paste
Not an emotion effect
It is believed that the Netherese have found the west gate of Tethyamar
“The Shadow from the West is Lengthening. Look to the Light.”

Other notes:
Alavaxi? What is Invictus not telling us?
Charity – Miles Mercer is the boss?

At Gribbon’s Farm, we met Matty Riverstone, with 12 Sun Blades (8 infantry, 4 foresters)