== 23 Mirtul, 1480 ==
It is the 23rd of Mirtul, and up at Castle Radiance, there has never been so much activity. The escalation of conflict on the border with Netheril has brought an increasing number of soldiers, both Sun Blades and mercenaries alike, to the Castle. From here, they are sent to any of a number of hot-spots on the front. Many will not return.

After breakfast at White Cloak Tower is concluded, and the guests of the Hostel are all seen out the door, Lumina gathers the only three White Cloaks present in the Tower; Troia Trustar, her lone confidant, and two of the newest recruits, Ganolen Thendolain and Alen Reks. She sits across from you at one of the large tables in the open dining hall. She has been up most of the night the last few nights. You have all heard her pacing around the stone floors of the place at all hours. On the few occasions that she has been able to sleep, you have heard her start from her dreams with a terrified scream. This morning, these long nights show on her once-beautiful face; she is pale and drawn, and her eyes are sunken and dark. She makes little contact, only occasionally looking at Troia, which makes both women smile briefly.

“I have a mission for the three of you” she begins in a voice so quiet and tired that the sound of the last few men leaving the hall noisily all but drowns her out. She waits for the door to slam behind them and continues. “Alystair and Tuugan are in great danger. I sense it. I am sure of it. Phineas is sure of it.” She lets out a low and drawn-out sigh that has a phlegmatic resonance in her chest.

“Your mission is simple; protect those two. They are investigating the location of the other two Covens of Shar, and we feel they are about to get too close for safety.” She looks down at her lap, and the wringing hands thereupon. Almost to herself, she mutters “I don’t know what I was thinking, sending just the two of them out...it is so dangerous...”

She then composes herself of a sudden, and looks up, now showing a slight glimmer in her eyes. Her change in spirit is partially encouraging, but partially offsetting; one could easily mistake her for being half-mad just then.

“Ok!” She begins, her voice now with full of force. “I have sent a letter to my cousin in town, at Loedegan Close. That is our family estate in Dagger Falls. I want you to go there and wait for Tuugan and Alystair to meet up with you. I want you to leave by highsun today, so you better make your preparations quickly. Reks; I want you to quartermaster this mission. I’ll be honest; I am not sure what you will need. I don’t know if the search for the coven will lead you into another mine, or deep into Cormanthor, or even back here.” She shrugs and smiles. “I am just glad to know that you will be meeting up with our two men in the field. 

“There are 6 horses left in the stables. Just leave me one.” Lumina pauses for a second, thinking deeply about what she is going to say next. “I think I will let Alystair brief you in on what they have been doing. To be honest, I am not up to speed on their latest discoveries. I will tell you that I want you to check in on Phin...Magistrate Hoetmer, at the Yellow Abbey. Let Troia do the talking, men, and you’ll get in with little difficulty. Hoetmer will have new information us, I am sure.

“One last thing; Alystair is the ranking officer on this mission; follow his orders like you would any other officer. He is often...unconventional...but he gets results, and that is what we need right now. Be off!” She stands and gives you all a warm handshake, something that is unusual for her. She embraces Troia, and holds her hand to keep her from leaving as the two men head upstairs to start preparing for the mission.

“Stay a moment, Troia” she says earnestly. “I know you worry about me. I am not myself these days, and I question and doubt many things, but not my friends. Worry for me, but do not doubt me. My purpose is clear and true, even though the weight of decisions and the knowledge that the Black Seed is planted so near to us is often too much for me.

“I have seen my grandfather and my uncle lately, wearing the same worry, though they bear it like a mountain bears the snows. The Black Seed is close, Troia. The Dark Garden has flourished, and already we have seen good men killed because of it. I had a...friend...a young man in Tesh Valley who was killed by that dragon...he and I loved each other one summer when we were both young and in the service together. It was against the rules, and we parted ways after that summer on good terms, and have rarely seen each other since. I didn’t pine for this man, but he’s dead now, and the dragon that killed him is being harboured by my organization. That is the work of the Black Seed; to get close to you to make you doubt yourself.

“We are all connected in this little dale. We are connected even to the dales around us; we have seen our problems cross into other dales as easily as the wind through the oak leaves. Soon, we will find one of these covens, and it will be a disastrous blow, no matter where it lands.

“Be safe, sister...”
=== Departure===
It was a quick and thankfully uneventful ride from the Castle. It was as if the mountains themselves were aware of the oncoming storm and they held their collective breaths, waiting to exhale after the battle between the light and the dark had been waged.

Troia brought up her horse at the gates of Fort Luminous and motioned for the two men accompanying her to halt. Her horse wheeled about impatiently as she spoke.

“We need to talk to someone here before heading into the lowlands. If anyone will have an unbiased opinion of what is transpiring in the lowlands than it will be the Warsmiths... also ... Iolus said the dragon was not a concern but as much as I wish to believe him, I'd like to hear what the Warsmiths have to say about it before we gallop headlong into a wrathful wyrm.”
===That Blasted Bollinger===
In arriving at the door to Bollinger’s apartments, Troia is surprised to find it open.
It hangs limply outward from the lower hinge only… and smoke still wafts in spurts from the room. No sound is heard within.
She takes two heartbeats to stop and load her hand crossbow before moving cautiously into the smoke-filled room. The acrid smoke making her eyes tear and she suppressed a cough as she spoke out loud.
“Hello?”
As the smoke billows out the doorway and blown out windows the room begins to clear.

Troia sees a disoriented and charred Bollinger struggling to regain his feet against the far wall of the room... his face is black, hair is singed, and his glasses hang limply from one ear.

He has not noticed her arrival.
