[PC Attribution: Maturin Horgath (Stephen Robertson)]
An entry from the journal of Maturin Horgath, dated 17 Kythorn, 1372
----

It is less than two months since we left Waterdeep, yet it seems that years have been stripped from my life. Our party has been five days in the desert, and we have covered less than twenty miles.

The desert wind whips my robes about me, the sand stings my eyes and open wounds. Sharp pains shoot through my skull. My vision blurs. The bite of the lion-creature, the harsh and blinding light of the desert sun, and my own internal turmoil are almost more than I can bear.

I endure.

We are stopped for a rest on the path leading us towards salvation or damnation. The first Zhent-tainted oasis lies over a day’s travel ahead. We will find no respite. What we might have paid for will be denied us - my money is gone. Our horses are gone.

I glance around.

Dorian is crouched on his haunches beside me, coughing silently and clutching his ruined throat. I watch him spit blood onto the sand. The moisture evaporates immediately, leaving a faint discoloration on the pale sands.
The heat presses down.

Dorian writes with a shaky hand on a crumpled page of vellum torn from his depleted journal. Precious inks stain his hands. He hands me the note.

‘We must continue’.

Sparrow helps Corina, lurching in the saddle. Her face is sullen. She glances at me, and blame, bitterness and anger spew from her eyes. Her cheeks are sunken. Her hair is lank. She fears for her unborn child.

Boregar pushes ahead. He was withdrawn into himself. Since Raven’s death he has been distant and driven. I cannot catch his eye. His boots crunch the sand.

I follow.

Warburden marches beside me. Even he, most noble creature, seems defeated. He tolerates Dalak with no complaint. He carries our supplies. He carries our armour. He carries the folly of my pride.

The party carries the marks of my sin.

O Lord Ilmater! It was Your Will that I saw the evil in the noble-looking Lion. It was Your Will that I fight It. But the Creature did not act in evil! Tribute for safe passage. It did not seek war, but peace. It is peace that I long for, and it is peace that You denied me!

I remember fighting in the Bloodstone armies against the brigand forces of the Lich-King of Vaasa. I remember the blood, the anger, the hatred, the pain and the sorrow. I vowed to stop the wars. I vowed to heal, to struggle to save lives, not take them. I vowed to ease suffering wherever it existed in the Realms.

But yesterday, my Lord, You showed me Evil. Yesterday, my Lord, You asked for Blood. Why did it sue for peace, O Lord? Why did it seek to spare us? I feel the blood course through my veins. Lycanthropy. I touch my tongue to my teeth. Are they sharper? My skin itches. Tomorrow night is the full moon. Is this Your Will?

I feel the eyes of the party on me.

They fear me.

I fear myself.

A gust of wind. Warburden rears up. Dalak pitches to the ground. I reach out a hand to restraint the mount, then reach down to help my comrade. His wounds have opened. I tend to them carefully, reassuring him. He grunts stoically, but I see the worry in his eyes. I know that my dread writhes equally within him.

Ignorance and suspicion eat at our bellies. Tomorrow night we’ll know. Tomorrow night we’ll be tested.

For now we continue.

For now we endure.

Ilmater, why have You forsaken me?
