[RAW - UNEDITED AND UNREVIEWED - extracted by automated process, not yet verified for accuracy or completeness]

Notes:
Greengrass, 1373
Midnight arrival of the Companions at Roark
s Tavern
Someone is waiting for us
it turns out to be Blackstaff
Garth, Beljuril, Rychel, Nero and Kennyth accompany him
News is related:
Anteos are fully assimilated by Dalael
Kennyth knows something about the staves
About 2000 years old
Chessentan make
800 years ago, Zhentilar united the warring factions of the Moonsea to found Zhentil Keep
Only a beholder can
charge
the staves
Kennyth thinks they are a means of communicating with a beholder from a distance
Chessentans say that the first staff was 8
with 10 stalks (no evidence of this one around)
Harkas Kormalis was killed a week ago, and his villa burned
The party is deputized by Blackstaff to
Clean up the town
Vader works for Aldebaran
Richter works for Dalael
Rumour of Ghaunadan working with Dalael
Monsters may be inhabiting the Irlingstar Villa
Beljuril sells the rings of clairaudience/clairvoyance
We arrange to resupply with Nero
Rooms are rented
Khelben, Nero, Kennyth depart
AMBUSH
Shellwynd Thann and Derek Swift ambush us along with hirelings
they take down Beljuril, and then leave
2 prisoners are captured:
Story 1: Gaebril
s interrogation
The thugs were told to carry 2 Harbour Moons each
Clavius the Mage hired these blokes and was training them to be a special forces unit
combat training etc.
Rank and file didn
t know the rangers, but knew they were there
Gaebril asks about Aldebaran
the fellow knows a little about Kendal Thorne, but not too much
Were in disguise
raggy clothes, but MW weapons
Story 2: Garth
s interrogation:
Garth investigates the mercs at Rhork
one named Gum (wearing black half-plate):
20 gp (10 gp per week rate)
he says he didn
t see the folks on the 2nd level
didn
t know Thann (Shellwynd) but knew the other
Waterdeep base of operations (Dockward)
Multiple cells of 16 men
No contact between cells
He only answer to Clavius
a mage
They normally have
gang colours
Greengrass
On the road, we find the body of the man that Gaebril wounded
Note that families may only retain 70 fighters in Waterdeep (some families get around this)
Arrival at Waterdeep
Maturin and Sparrow
A bunch of ruffians on the street, the place seems ill at ease
Maturin drops Sparrow off at the Temple to Azuth
Garth and Boregar
Meet a tricked up gnome who is interested in the Gond pistola
Knows
The Wanderer
and is
Supposed to get it
from him
Boregar and the gnome go to the Dripping Dagger to discuss
Garth takes Gum to the Tower, where Richter is
Richter is surprised to see Garth, but takes the prisoner and thanks Garth
Dorian and Gaebril
Swing by the Irlingstar Villa
10th and 11th Fist are there (from the Mines in Dagger Falls)
Crawling with a more than legal # of guards
A lot of Jardeth mercs on duty
A lot of horses seen suited up in the courtyard
A protocol of some sort is being undertaken
changing of the guard?
Boregar at the Dripping Dagger
Gnome is named
Whistle
Boregar impresses the gnome, who leaves, saying he will be in touch
Maturin on his own
Arrival at the Temple of Tempus
Finds a Priest to Guide him to the Raventree Villa
About 3x too many guards on duty
Raven
s body arrived safely
Morgan Lathkule has died, apparently slain by rats and wolves
The family is grieving, and is acting irrationally (?)
Nandos feels that Ratbiter would find a good home in the hands of the Eastern Storm
Reconvention at the Dripping Dagger
Filiare tells Gaebril that Steele doesn
t hang around anymore
Additionally, there have been people asking after Steele
Discussion at Phaulkonmere
The Rooken network knows that Sal Worthingham originally hired the rangers, and knows that Clavius hired the remaining two rangers to hunt Beljuril
Egan used to work for Thagdul (according to Halam Umbrusk) but is now devoting himself to fighting the Cult of Muir Quaiggoth
Halam Umbrusk is a worshipper of Selune and is helping Gaebril only because of a vision he had from the Goddess.
4 am
delivery of Nero
s provisions
5 sparkling dusts
50 metal flasks
100 potion-barrel of CLW
4 belts
20 potion-barrel of CLW
60 daylight pellets
Maturin
Visits Kennyth at the Font of Knowledge, discovers where the Chessentan district is in Waterdeep (corner of Net and Sail streets in DW)
Kennyth indicates that Clavius is in studying all the time
twice a tenday at least
Clavius has been looking for information on the EOI, Ascelpius of Rethe, etc.
Others come in now and then
Dally
s research doesn
t follow Clavius
Some investigation on starmetal
We get a book to give to Beljuril on the subject
Boregar delivers the book to the Temple of Azuth
A meeting is arranged with Egan through Nero
Dorian, Garth, Maturin
Visit to the Chessentan district
Meet with
Adee
near
The Hanged Man
They tell us that Ammon and Zuth will seek us out
Garth recognizes Edgar/Stuart Grimbold watching from an alley
Note intercepted in Zelbross by Durnax Vorn, Dated Tarsakh 1, 1373
Jafar;
I have learned a terrible secret.  Our other means of communicating have been compromised.  I am returning from Yulash now.  Do not use the staff anymore
Signed with the sigil of Thagdul the wizard.
Attack by Gauntil Mercenaries
Kendal Thorne
A red snake attacks Garth
List of Businesses:
Unicorn
s Horn
Dark Lantern
Malthoon
s High Road Shippers
Just before Secomber, the tablets went north off the road
This was before the winter (note: confirm date)
Message from AM to D:
Take
the flock
to convince EM to sign up, otherwise, kill him
Jannaxxil has been gone since Tarsakh 1372
Mirtul 3
Blades of Korombos hijack a Dalael cargo
What is the connection between
Margaster
Airlestar
Dragon
Who owns the building South of DW15
Rhork ran the Wheel of Sands trading company.
Why are the Beholders in the City?
What is the Dalael
s current relationship with Xulla?
Cargo for Zulpair
s Pride was supposed to be taken by the Blades of Korombos
Who is Sylke?
Q for Egan: Has there been any traffic of slabs through the sewers?
What
s the connection with the Blacktail clan?
Does Egan have information on Irlingstars, Muir Quaiggoth?
Could we co-ordinate with the independents on an assault against the Irlingstars?
Q for Quevin
Where is Janaxxil?  Any news?
Ask Nero re: Ebola/Malagent/Thasmudyan
News from the Rooken network:
Slabs did not pass through the City Gates
-1997 DR a meteor fell from the sky and part of the shower created the Dagger Hills
2 Mirtul
Stuart is now a follower of entropy
Garth asks about
Magebane
Stuart thinks this has been taken care of
Apparently Ammon and Zuth are in the city
Edgar gives Garth a signal
6 men at table in the Hanged Man
a big spike in their chests, and marks on their hands
brief conversation with these men
Garth asks re: starmetal
Boss man tells Dorian that Dragon will betray him
Garth Maturin and Dorian cash in their notes from Thagdul, which end up being 6 crates of sugar cane
Thagdul
s last laugh.
Beljuril
It has been found out that Clavius has some kind of necromantic dweomer on his face
he could be Jafar
Book on starmetal
comes from an asteroid called Vaerusius, which sends meteors to Faerun
refined starmetal is 100% magic resistant
Dorian and Gaebril hire an astronomer named Maskar Wands to find out about the asteroid/comet
10 pm
supper
12 am
we uncover the beholder staff
- beholder attempts to contact Jafar
Mirtul 4
Noon
Beljuril scries on Thagdul, who is seen riding with at least 30 Fist riding through dusty farmland.  He does not speak, and stops a lieutenant from speaking, indicating that he may be aware that Beljuril is scrying on him.
Has he lost his staff?
Garth sets about hiring guards
Dorian and Maturin head to the Hanged Man in Little Chessenta
Ammon
, more talkative, black bracers, 2 scimitars and leather armour
Zuth
Shorter, mute, but attentive, longbow and longsword
Maturin makes the position of
The Party
clear
Dorian receives a message from Dragon that a package has been left with Filiare (see handout)
Note accompanying a gift for Count Dorian of Daggerdale
For the greatest swordsman in the Realms.  Love, Dragon.
Signed with the sigil of Ekoul aka Dragon
Gaebril sulks
Garth and Beljuril head to the Anteos villa in the evening to speak with Quevin
Heavily armed forces abound
Quevin indicates the following:
Hordes of rats are in the sewers
Almost impossible to get through this way
Thorne is a powerful diviner
The Beholder
runs the Zhent shop
The Beholder
(or at least Xulla) was betrayed by the Dalael when they took hold of the Wavesilver Cargo
date uncertain:
Delivery from Nero
2 magical amulets
1 magical belt
1 cloak of natural armour
Party discussion in the evening:
Thagdul lost control of Yarkul and Dagger Falls, and was therefore demoted.  As a result, he has lost his staff to a higher up in the Zhentarim (maybe Manshoon?) and is coming back to Waterdeep to reclaim the staff that Jafar is carrying.
Who did the Hunabars steal the staff from again?
The Beholder In The Staff
(TBITS) is trying to dissuade us from thinking that the Beholders (through the Zhents) are trying to
dispel the Weave
The surface world won
t be affected
maybe the drow are more interested, as they will be pushed to the surface or perish
TBITS says we should stop the Dalael, as they are currently poised to take over the show
TBITS thinks that the Heart of the Earth was a grand joke.
Go find Istolil now!
it chuckles.
Soltan (Jafar) is now Xulla
s right hand man
TBITS isn
t aware of whether Kendal Thorne aka Altuth Mzul knows about the connection between Soltan and Xulla
Motives for all are questioned
Irlingstars are guarding the sewer entrance to the Irlingstar Villa
Blacktail clan is not
Contact Egan through a curio-monger named Scurluff
Note left by Maturin with Scurluff on Mirtul 4:
Discussion of a meeting with Dally
Dorian, Garth and Beljuril make for the Eltorchul Villa to meet Dally Dalael.  Here
s what he has to say
A mage at Aldebaran speaks with a beholder (Xulla?)
Beholders generally plot against each other
s their way
Dally knows of 8-10 beholder kin in the GWA
Zantiid used to manipulate a mage named Thagdul (Z probably considered T it
s pawn)
Speculation that beholders operate
outside
the Weave
Dally
s opinion is that the state of the city is a reflection/echo of some political play by the Beholders
Dally tells us that Xulla and Dalael no longer run together
Historically, beholders come in threes
Maturin investigates Muir Kwaigoth at the Font of Knowledge to no effect
Gaebril discovers that some mage torched the Observatory and killed Maskar Wands
Olanheir, Wands
daughter, accuse Gaebril of bringing the doom to her father
Q and A:
Did Maskar discover the date of the approach?	NO
Did Maskar discover the location on Faerun over which the comet will pass?	NO (but close)
Was the area part of the Waterdeep area?	NO
Was the area West of Anauroch?	YES
Was the area South of Waterdeep?	NO
Was the area North of Waterdeep?	YES
Was the area closer to NW than W?	YES
Was the area closer to Luskan than NW?	NO
Is Thagdul aware of the location?	NO
Are the beholders closer to NW than W?	NO
Is Thagdul closer to NW than W?	NO
Is Thagdul in Waterdeep?	NO
Is Thagdul N of Waterdeep?	NO
Is Thagdul S of Waterdeep?	YES
Are the Beholders trying to destroy the Weave?	NO
Mirtul 7
Garth and Beljuril loot the Irlingstars
Maturin goes on Patrol (asking for his share of the treasure later)
Scrying: Derek and Shellwynd are riding hard for the East
it looks like they
ve left Waterdeep and may be returning to the Dales
Jannaxil Serpentil is back in town, but not active yet
A note arrives from Egan in the evening, which indicates that he is keeping a low profile for the time being
Rychel finds that one of Jafar
s safehouses has been hastily packed up
Jafar was seen leaving the city Mirtul 5 after the battle
Beljuril and Garth go to visit the Dalael
Quevin says he has the Encyclopedia Ocularis Indomitus, and says he would be willing to sell it in exchange for a deal that would essentially exclude Garth
s enterprise from involvement with the Noble Houses of Waterdeep
Maturin
s observations:
Quevin is willing to give us backup if we storm the villa
He is unaware of the aims of the beholders
Watch the side buildings for flanking opponents
Notes:
Stephen Robertson
Stephen Robertson
Microsoft Word 9.0
Dymaxium
Notes:
Microsoft Word Document