NPCs, Families and Organizations 

Fiona Scarlett (Cleric 1 – Sharess) 
Special Ability: Nearness of Sharess 

Fiona is imbued with Sharess's divinity in some small measure.  People coming very near to her, or in contact with her will feel slightly euphoric.  She can give Bless one character/day with a gentle action (holding a hand, kiss on the cheek), which will give that character +1 to attack rolls and will saves for the remainder of the day. 
Working with Mari One Day 
Fiona Scarlett is very eager to please.  She helps you tidy things up at Embassy, and you can see that she is accustomed to common work; she is adept at cleaning, cooking, mending, and especially to seeing to the needs of patrons; she happily brushes and braids your hair, and you feel very confident and contented afterwards. 
During the course of these activities, she opens up to you, and you learn the following about her; 
She is short and curvy, at 5'1", and not particularly athletic.  She has naturally blonde hair, but it is dyed black today, and she favours wearing lots of makeup to match the colour of her hair.  She goes on and on about the dressing table she had at The Old Fort in Charity, and how she could apply any colour to her face or hair, and you can see that she misses it.   
She is an orphan and never knew her parents.  The surname 'Scarlett' in Charity denotes her status as an orphan, just like the surname 'Dale' in the rest of the Dalelands.  In Charity, it is sign that you are likely not free, and is a stigma, whereas many boast of their surname of Dale, as being emblematic of their self-reliance. 
Fiona was found on the steps of Charnel Priory 16 years ago and was raised by the Sisters until the age of 8.  She showed no promise as a Sister and was assigned to live with the Keystone family.  Her adopted father, Walter Keystone, was the Merchants' Guildmaster, as well as Speaker of the Common Assembly.  He was one of the most influential people of his caste ('Middlemen'), but was revealed recently to be part of a cult known as The Gideon Cult, and is at-large as a wanted man.  The family descended quickly into penury; Fiona was turned out, her 'papers' (you think this is something of an ownership contract or some such) signed over to Medea Rowan at The Old Fort. 
She had been a novitiate in the church of Sharess since the age of 12, and was already well known to Medea, and was a promising girl with enthusiasm and a natural affinity for people and her goddess that made her stand apart from other girls her age.  However, she never got accustomed to the rougher men of the Old Fort, and she knew that her time would soon be coming to minister to her patrons in a more intimate manner. Some of the older girls told her that there were many men asking when she would be available, and that she should be careful.  It was well known that the dilletante Godwin Ferguson asked after her all the time, and that Mme. Medea had refused great inducements to turn her out early from Godwin. 
Hearing that there was a large group of merchants and dignitaries leaving for Dagger Falls, she decided to stow along, and left The Old Fort and Charity without leave.  This is a punishable offense, given that she is not 'Free' to leave by their laws.  She was horrified to hear that among the nobles in the caravan headed for the Falls was Godwin himself.  She did her best to blend in with the rest of the 100 or so people in the caravan, but was ultimately found out, and brought before Godwin, while they were camped at Crossed Blades farm. 
She had a frightful discussion with him, that she is hesitant to give any details about, but she insists that he is a bad man, who has a great deal of leverage over her; she has broken the law, and only by his graces will she ever be truly free of Charity and her indentured servitude.   
The caravan arrived in the Falls a few days ago, and Fiona attempted to escape her bonds again.  She has been sleeping in alleyways for a couple of nights but was found this morning (the 19th) by some of the men from Charity, and brought before Ferguson.  Now, having crossed him and his laws on multiple occasions, and being brought before a clearly-drunk and rapacious young noble, she feared the worst sort of treatment.  But whether Ferguson was already slaked, or driven by some momentary bout of compassion, he told her that if she could get a meeting with The Chrysalis that he would free her. 
The rest you know.
