The noted riddler and self-described 'Master of Human Nature' Oliver Windemchester is a minor scion of the Ormlintar noble family of Tantras. While certainly no stranger to the plots and schemes of that city's aristocracy (indeed, he is a veritable expert in the politics of skulduggery), his heritage is darker and more dangerous than even he suspects.

== Oliver's Heritage ==

Of old, the drow held the lands of the northern coast of the Moonsea. From here, they organised raids into the cities of Mulmaster, Hillsfar, and Zhentil Keep. In the year 974 DR, a half-elf by the name of Sulass destroyed the drow outpost and erected a castle on the site to guard against st future drow invasions. The castle took the name of Sulasspryn, and a town soon grew around it. Sulass was given the name of 'Drowsbane' and his successors have since taken that name as a sign of their heritage and vigilance.

However, unbeknownst to the humans of Sulasspryn and the Drowsbane rulers of the town, the matriarch of the main drow clan destroyed by Sulass had survived. For generations, Azanza Mizzrym, High Priestess of Lolth and ruler of House Mizzrym, had been consolidating her forces and re-establishing her House with the sole purpose of exterminating every single one of Sulass' descendants.

In 1306 DR, Azanza finally had her revenge. Through extensive tunneling, the drow collapsed the entire city of Sulasspryn into an enormous sinkhole, killing its entire population of 7500 inhabitants. Despite these efforts, however, a few of Drowsbane's heirs have survived, scattered to the four winds. Azanza continued her search, and systematically murdered the Drowsbane family - all but six. These survivors she now hunts with fanatical passion, and will not stop until all are dead.

Wherever they may be, she intends to kill them.

thumb
==Surviving Scions of Sulass Drowsbane==

#Kalagg of the High Dale: heir to the throne of Sulasspryn. This man is a ranger who is missing after having departed for Kara-Tur over a decade ago
#Deirdre of Arabel: married into the Truesilver noble family of Cormyr
#Oliver of Tantras: Scion of the Ormlintar noble family of Tantras
#Malcolm of Ravens Bluff: An old retired mercenary
#Pythas of Mulmaster: A high-ranking priest of Cyric
#An unknown Waterdhavian, rumoured to be a member of a noble family of thatof the City of Waterdeep.

(Note that of the above scions, only Kalagg and Pythas are aware of their heritage).
