\"Do you have any inkling of who I am, you oafish, inbred lack-wits?\"

The man who had her by the wrists was already pressing against her back, dangerously close, hot, stinking breath mercilessly rolling over her scrunched up face. He chuckled savagely in her ear as she twisted and strained in his grasp, rage darkening her features like a thundercloud. She felt something prodding the side of her hip, and prayed to the gods that it was the handle of something sharp.

The shortest of the three, busying himself with the examination of the contents of her cart, took a moment to look up from his pillaging and toss her a nasty smile.

\"Do I look like I care, missy?\" The sneer he offered her was sickening, but not as sickening as the quick up-and-down he gave her before sifting through her belongings once more. What she saw in that man's eyes, well... she knew well enough what was intended, once he was finished drooling over her undergarments. That much was abundantly clear. The thing poking in her hip was relentless, churning her stomach with nausea and, much to her own self-disgust, fear. The second man, torch held aloft over the her cart for the sake of the first, gave her an strangely wounded stare.

\"I ain't oafish.\" He growled, eyes darting back and forth down either side of the road. The Trade Way was well travelled, as the name implied, but it was early still. Despite the stars overhead, travellers often hit the Boareskyr Bridge and kept on goin' until the Wayside Inn reared itself on the horizon. Regardless, any travellers arriving from either end could be... problematic, since even the less-than-selfless folk were quick to step in when a pretty lady was in trouble.

The first man cuffed the second. \"Keep yerself outta the light, Kent. I'm tryin' to find something worthful in'near, and I can't do it in the dark.\"

\"Sorry.\" He mumbled, not taking his nervous eyes from either end of the road, although being a wall-eyed fellow made such a task marginally easier.

The first man didn't acknowledge the apology, too busy lifting a fine silk gown into view, peeking his head out from the side of it, a shit-eating grin spread across his face. \"You important or somethin', missy? This is some fine silk I'm thinkin', very nice, very posh. Yes indeed...\"

\"Important?!\" she spat, ready to pounce, jerking herself forward despite the implacable ogre of a man holding her in place.

\"'Ey, 'old on to 'er, Sedge.\" The first man admonished, dancing the garment through the air with his grubby fingers, mocking laughter pouring from his filthy mouth.

\"She's strugglin' boss.\"

\"You like 'em when they struggle.\"

\"Aye.\" The big man replied, which swiftly spelled the end to any of her further struggling, nothing but utter disgust on her face.

The three of them laughed in unison.

\"Make 'er dance for us,\" crowed the second man, his voice cracking from an awkward over-eagerness. Sedge answered with a wide grin. He hoisted the girl's arms over her head, tugging each up and down, forcing her to sway side-to-side as the first clapped his hands on her favourite dress, the lot of them howling with laughter as she twisted beneath the large man's arms.

\"You are not allowed to do this to me! I am Lady Otrallia kel Tannith, daughter of Harllo kel Tannith, Lord of Baldur's Gate! Unhand me!\"
The first man paused in his clapping, the grin on his face evolving into a scheming grin. \"Really now? Ain't that interesting now...\"
Enough was enough.

Otra raised her leg and drove it heel-first into Sedge's broad, moccasined foot with as much force as she could muster. A loud bellow burst from her captor's throat as he reflexively released her wrist with one hand to reach at his wounded toes, which she quickly took advantage of by grabbing whatever it was that was grinding and poking against her leg. She took ahold of its length, twisted and pulled as hard as she could, and was aghast to find it come loose, only to reassure herself with the knowledge that it was, in fact, the handle of the man's dagger and not... well, the other thing. Now properly oriented, she yanked herself into a crouch, freeing her other hand and driving the elbow straight into the thug's groin in a single fluid motion, like lightning dashing itself a tree. Sedge staggered back, choking on a scream, cradling himself with both hands as he tumbled off the road and into the bushes. Already the other two men were shouting in alarm and sprinting towards her, the single, flailing torch scattering shadows across the road.

Otra assumed her stance, leaning back her shoulder to reduce her profile, arm outstretched, tightly gripping the blade with a loose, flexible wrist. The first man's sword flashed forward - clumsily form, she noted - and she drew herself back, allowing the two blades to connect as she guided the force of the blow away from her body, her own blade deftly sliding across the sword's edge and down the back of the blade, unguarded by the basket hilt, to sever the man's thumb where it met the palm. As the man released his weapon, hand clutching his spasming wrist, screaming, she drove the tip of her boot into his belly, doubling him over with a squeal of pain. Laughing, she vaulted over his back with one hand to meet the last man's - Kent's, rather - approach. He chopped vertically with the torch, missing Otra as she twirled aside, the blow instead connecting with the head of the thumbless man, sending him face-first into the gravel road with a sickly, crunching sound. A backhanded swipe with the dagger, pommel slamming into the man's temple, sent him tumbling bodily to the ground, torch clattering across the ground.

Her eyes followed it as it rolled, eventually coming to a halt several feet away, illuminating the a tall stranger who had been standing and observing, expression unreadable.

Seconds passed without a word, Otra confidently eyeing him with her weapon in hand.

\"Wow.\" Was all he said, wide eyes darting between the two unconcious men decorating the space between them.

Otra merely sniffed and tossed the dagger aside, casually walking towards the heaped pile of her possessions that had been so rudely tossed about. Taking in hand the wrinkled silk gown and examining it carefully, the gleeful smile she had been wearing earlier quickly twisted into a frown. Ruined, look at that! He even stepped on it! Gods, it was her favourite... blue, with the frills, the shiny platinum buttons, gold threadwork, complemented her hair and skin perfectly... and now, ruined. She turned around, dress dragging beside her, and marched towards the prone form of the first man. The stranger was crouching over him, hand on the side of his neck, the other carefully placed against the back of the head where a good amount of blood was trickling out from beneath the singed hair.

\"Move. I want to kick him.\" Otra said from between clenched teeth.

\"You nearly killed him.\" The young man replied, looking up from the body, fixing two impossibly green eyes upon her face. Her frown disappeared for a moment as she examined his face, mostly concealed beneath a shock of long, black hair, writ with unreasonable concern for the useless thug laying face-down in the dirt. He returned his gaze to the man between them, gingerly turning his head to the side to examine the face. \"You broke his nose, too.\" The stranger's tone was... disapproving? He looked at her again, this time a frown on his face, although he didn't exactly seem angry with her. He was quite fetching, she noted. Wait. Otra was angry. Yes.

\"He earned it.\" She said defensively, crossing her arms, then, remembering the dress in her hand, extended it as evidence and justification to this newcomer, this person to whom she owed no explaination for her actions and yet felt the need to prove her rightness to anyways.

The man eyed the dress for a moment, then looked at her, then at the dress again, finally resting a blank stare on her once more. She shivered unnoticably beneath that stare, then drew the dress back, cradling it against her chest.

\"I don't understand. You nearly killed two men over a dress?\"

Oh, he hadn't seen. Wait, why did it matter? Otra reminded herself once again that this man's required no explaination, not from her. He was probably no better than these thugs, after all. The primitive mind of man was not a thing of complicated thought, as such she knew perfectly well what most men's intentions were when it came to fine women such as herself.

\"I don't need to explain myself to you,\" she drawled dismissively, returning back to her things, collecting them, brushing them off, replacing them in their proper containers. She grimaced at the dirty fingerprints their grubby paws had left all over her undergarments. Turmish silk did not wash well. They were basically ruined, like so many of her things littering the surrounding area. She looked back over her shoulder. The young man had bandaged the first man's head, having rolled him over, and was now occupied with the delicate task of plugging his streaming nose with two wads of linen.

\"Leave 'em,\" she snarled. \"They were assaulting me. Highwaymen, no doubt, preying on weak and beautiful women such as myself, only this time they picked poorly. I,\" she declared with a chin thrust high, eyes closed,\"am anything but weak.\"

\"I... can see that.\" The young man murmured, brushing his hands against the ground and then his leggings before making his way to the second thug, rolling him over and eyeing the battered side of his head with a critical stare. He prodded the deep, purple bruise that was slowing creeping over the man's head, and jumped slightly at the weak groan it elicted. \"I'll wager you've scattered his wits with that blow.\" He rolled a piece of cloth around his finger and gingerly dabbed at the trail of blood seeping from the unconcious man's ear.

Otra's perfect eyebrows furrowed with frustration. \"His wits were scattered long before then.\"

The young man looked back at her as he prodded and dabbed. Still disproving, his handsome features showering her with vague, yet somewhat condescending, understanding.

\"I'm certain they were.\"

\"They were!\"

\"Oh no, I believe you.\"

\"You do?\"

\"They were obviously going to do you harm.\"

\"Obviously.\"

\"You were completely in the right here.\"

\"That's what I've been saying!\"

\"I believe you.\"

A pause.

\"Are you serious...? I... the way you say that, I can't be sure if you're being sarcastic or not.\"

\"Completely.\"

\"Completely serious, or completely sarcastic?\"
\"Serious.\"

His deadpan reply set her teeth on edge. Puffing her cheeks grumpily, she turned back to her business and waved a single hand at him, trying to ignore the twitching that had developed in the corner of her eye.

\"Fine. Whatever. Help the men who tried to rape me.\" She was growing angrier with each and every word.

A pause, the flickering of the distant torch being the only sound to stir the early morning air.

\"That's a stretch.\" He muttered under his breath.

The pot boiled over.

She jumped to her feet, strode twice towards him, and grabbed the man by the collar, pulling him close as she loomed over him, rage churning in her eyes. And then she started screaming.

\"What is that supposed to mean?!

A stretch?!

Who do you think you are?!

You weren't there!

One of them had me by the arms, twisting me about like some cheap harlot!

I am a lady! A GORGEOUS, BRILLIANT LADY!

A STRETCH?!

WHAT ARE YOU TRYING TO SAY?

MEN WOULD LINE UP TO RAPE ME, YOU LOUT!

YOU ASS!\"
Each exclaimation caused the volume and pitch of her voice to increase, despite the growing absurdity of her screeching, until she was screaming so hard she felt her voice crack. Catching ahold of her self, Otra was embarassed - but mostly satisfied - to see the wide-eyed terror painted on the young man's face. She also noticed, beneath those trembling green eyes, the apparent redding of his face, bringing to her attention the fact that her forehead was pressed firmly against his, noses touching at the tip, lips less than an inch's width apart. Otra closed her eyes and collected her wits about her, releasing the young man's collar so she could brush several errant hairs from her face that had fallen loose. She glared at him imperiously, sidelong, before getting to her feet and stomping back to her things, where she promptly settled back onto her haunches, whereupon she realized something, stood up, marched back over to him (causing him to flinch, but she was too angry to enjoy it), bent over and snatched up the dress where she had dropped it, stomped back to her things, then deposited herself once more.

A few minutes later, after she had calmed down somewhat, she risked a glance back over her shoulder to see if the stranger was still there.

He was kneeling where Otra had left him, pale-faced, eyes wide, head still craned back from the memory of the verbal storm she had unleashed upon him.

The young man blinked after a time.

Otra sniffed disdainfully and turned back to her business, allowing a smug grin to squirm into the open. She had shown him, alright.

It was then that the bushes at the side of the road began to rustle, abruptly making way for the lumbering frame of Sedge, still cradling his junk with both hands, specks of dried vomit tangled in his scraggly beard.

Sedge stared at Otra, who turned to gauge the shell-shocked stranger's reaction, who was still staring bug-eyed, only now at Sedge rather than Otra (which bothered her somewhat for some reason), leaving everyone accounted for as far staring was concerned.

Crickets contended with the dying torch, filling the awkward silence with enough sound to make things somewhat bearable for the three individuals. Then, glancing momentarily at the steadily breathing forms of his prostrate companions, Sedge carefully stepped backwards into the bushes, vanishing from sight without a word.

After several more moments, the young man found his nerve.

\"Who are you?\" He asked hesitantly, all traces of smarm and sarcasm gone from his voice.

\"Otra.\" She replied crisply, now hauling the lightest of her possessions back into the cart.

\"Edward.\"

\"Pleasure.\"

\"Same.\"

She bent over one of the larger crates, the one containing most of her instruments, and heaved against it. It refused to budge more than a few inches, and she was forced to lower it, gingerly, before pulling back the lid, eyes rolling over the vast accumulation of things she may or may not have to leave behind. A thought struck her. She turned and eyed the young man named Edward, now standing uncomfortably several feet away, eyes resting on the torch still laying in the middle of the road, fingers twiddling a leather-strapped coin around his neck.

\"Ahem.\"

He jumped somewhat, looked at her and then the box she was bent over, then back at her, all over her, up and down (what a pig), then back at the box once again before understanding dawned on his quickly reddening face.

\"Do you need a hand?\"

\"Oh no, I was just going to toss all of these expensive things away. Maybe these fellows would like to start a band, hey?\"

Edward reciprocated with a blank stare.

\"Gods,\" she groaned,\"get over here and help me lift this.\"

\"Oh. Just say so then.\" He quickly scrabbled forwards, hooked his long arms around the crate and, with a grunt, heaved the entire thing upwards and onwards, right out of Otra's arms, and onto the back of the cart with a heavy thump, elicting a chorus of bad sounds from the crate's delicate contents. Her glare was lost on him, however, as he was already pawing at the next chest, and within the span of thirty seconds everything was loaded up and tightly secured. He hadn't even broken a sweat, but was wiping his forehead nonetheless, a broad smile spread across his face, as though labour was something he actually enjoyed. Edward quickly became aware of her attention, deflecting his stare, smile vanishing from his face. Otra was deep in thought, delicate fingers tapping softly against her perfect chin. He was pretty strong, and the way he carried that sword on his hip, the worn leather grip tossing shadows up and down his lean, yet solid-looking torso... broad shoulders bracing a smooth neck, a firm yet slender chin under handsome, verging on androgyny...? Yes, those features... not off-putting, somewhat compelling actually. Perhaps there was elf blood in him, but you'd never guess from the curve of his ears, although the eyes were somewhat almond-shaped, dazzling to boot, like fresh grass after the rain. He was definately fetching, and that was putting it lightly...

\"What.\" Edward asked, clearly disconcerted by her unrelenting gaze..

\"You'll do,\" Otra replied tonelessly, hands cupping her cheeks, concealing the warmth that had inadvertantly begun to blossom beneath her porcelain skin.

\"What?\"

\"I said you'll do. Get on the cart. I've been looking for a servant.\"

\"What?\"
\"Is that the only word you know? Did a bit of lifting break that feeble mind of yours?\"

\"Wh... I don't...you...I'm not...\"

\"Use your words.\"

\"I'm not a... servant.\"

\"Fine. Lackey. Minion. Porter, attendant, whatever. My last one ran out on me.\"
\"Why?\"

\"Not sure. Regardless, the position is now open. So..?\"

\"I'm not... I'm not hiring myself out at the moment.\"

Frustration creased her forehead. Why was he making this so difficult?

\"Where are you going?\"

Edward paused. From the troubled expression on his face, Otra was able to deduce that he probably had no idea. She followed up on that.

\"Haven't decided yet? Waterdeep? Maybe Neverwinter?\"

\"I... I don't even know where that is. Either of them.\" He was an honest man, at least. She smiled sweetly as she brushed past him, walking around the cart to the driver's side. She placed one foot on the spoked wheel and heaved herself gracefully into the seat, gathering the reins with one hand and patting the seat next to her with the other.

\"Hop on. You can ride with me until Daggerford, it's a day or two away. I'm not hard to get along with, and I'll pay you for your trouble. I'd prefer to have a strong... male presence with me, so as to scare off such undesirable situations as the one that just occured here.\"

\"I don't even know where that is...\"

\"It's on the way.\" Otra said, growing more and more exasperated by the second.

The stared at her for a moment, a hard stare, and she could see that he was thinking. Those green eyes flickered with the faint light of strained thought, something that obviously did not come to the man easily. The crease of his brow, the troubled downturn of his lips, the way he palmed at his cheek with one hand, like a confused child offered something nice, yet something that his little mind was helplessly suspicious of, worrying hesitantly at the unseen strings that may be attached but probably weren't.

\"Eddddd-waaaard.\" She chimed playfully, restraining her annoyance so as to hurry him along.

\"Fine. I already have obligations that prevent me from taking your offer, but I would be more than happy to accompany you as far as Daggerford.\"

\"Perfect!\" Otra said, clapping her hands together with genuine delight, much to her own suprise.

Edward climbed up to seat himself behind her, settled his sword, and glanced back at the bodies laying on the road.

\"Is it safe to leave them, I wonder?\" He inquired.

\"Their friend is just waiting for us to leave.\" She leaned over, noting the growing orange and purple that bleed into the early morning sky, and shouted. \"We're going now! Good luck in future endeavours, Sedge!\"

A mumbled reply, unintelligible over the distance.

Otra smiled and cracked the reins, sending the black horse hitched to the cart into a steady trot.

An unexpected start to the day, she thought to herself, risking a glance at Edward. His head was bowed somewhat, eyes distant, lost in thought. He was young, probably no more than a few winters older than herself. A perfect companion for the road ahead, her adventure that had barely just begun, but had already given her so much excitement. Too long she had been locked up in her father's estate, a perfect daughter to put on display for the scores of young dandies to covet and admire. Watch her dance, watch her sing, watch her play. No. Not anymore. No more of that. From now on, Otra was her own woman. The bird had fled the cage, flying free to find her fate. She shivered, ooh, how she appreciated alliteration. Gods, she was a smart one, and gorgeous to boot. The perfect daughter. Father should be happy - now everyone could see what he had made, what he had trained, sculpted - oh, she could do that too, she loved art - out of the sad only child he had raised. Well... he hadn't done much raising at all, hiring out nanny after nanny to do the job for him. Otra was doing him a favour. Now all of Faerun would see his handiwork.

And look, she had found herself a trophy aswell. She looked away from Edward's adorably distressed face. He was thinking, perhaps too hard, maybe worrying about his current situation, maybe just grinding his little gears on some personal matter. Any thinking at all seemed a stretch of effort for this one. Like a puppy fretting over which end of the bone to start on, the overall result was as pointless as it was charming, mostly in a pitiful sort of way. She would intervene and decide for him, taking the load off his little mind, as she had just done moments before, receiving boundless thanks in return for so simple a task. Some people needed things decided for them, Otra knew.
\"What're you thinking about?\" She queried with a polite smile. Perhaps she had misjudged him.

\"Oh, just hungry is all.\" Edward replied, snapping from his reverie with an equally polite smile that made her own more geniune than she intended. He began fishing around in his satchel (for a bone to gnaw on, no doubt). Otra rarely misjudge people, especially when those people were men. She sighed and leaned into her hand as her companion began munching on something vaguely resembling dried beef. The pretty ones were always somewhat daft, in her experience.

Except for herself, of course.

Ever the exception to the rule.
