A quaint place, Daggerford. Otra had, with little real interest, noticed the high walls scrambling out of the dirt, the garish paint fresh on the walls, the half-hearted attempt at cobbled streets that gradually, grudgingly, sank back into hard-packed dirt the further one travelled down the town's thoroughfare. A place wedged firmly along the Trade Way, shadowed by Waterdeep to the north and Baldur's Gate to the south, so profitable a position and yet so embarassingly... Otra searched for words to describe. A shabby hovel struggling in the throes of a burgeoning renaissance, trapped by necessity in the rippling wake left by the Spellplague's aftermath. A century of metropolitan growth that had finally reached beyond the Sword Coast's grand cities and out into the surrounding countryside, fields long left fallow (metaphorically and literally), the soil only recently being harrowed by opportunistic Waterdhavian and Baldurian landowners. Daggerford was like a growing youth, no longer a child, but not yet fit for adulthood. Growing pains, drawn out and awkward, settling into a shape long dreamt of yet still so far from reach.

Otra smiled as she walked the crowded market, eyeing stalls with no more than a passing glance as peasants feverishly hawked their wares, eager to feed their families. She was alone at the moment - where Edward was, well, probably still seated firmly upon his ass in that whore's tavern. Her smile broadened uncontrollably at the thought. How brightly the young Cormyrian's eyes had shone, seeing the sign dangling before the red-shingled establishment - Lady Luck Tavern, scrawled above a coin leaning abreast a tankard of ale, splashed across the wood in faded white paint.

\"This is it... what I've been searching for!\" He was so delighted, incoherent, eyes wild as he gestured towards the tavern door, that Otra hadn't even been bothered by his suggestion that she stow her goods while he inquired within towards their lodgings for the night. At the time, she hadn't the heart to tell him that the place was both a tavern and a brothel. He'd grasp it soon enough, she concluded... but then again, Otra had prodded stories out of him, tales of the young man's womanly woes, the constant harassments and proposals that set his honest face blushing every time (much to her own cruel delight). To poor, sweet Edward, any whore's advance would seem no different from that of the frenzied wallflowers he was always fending off, a bulwark braced against so many pounding waves. Terminally oblivious, truly simpleton to the ways of the fairer sex.

Ah well, that was something for later. No doubt Otra could get a couple good laughs out of that revelation, and oh how she enjoyed laughter at the expense of silly boys such as Edward Albrecht.

Soon after the splitting of paths, Otra had made her way to the quayside in search of storage arrangements. To her credit, she had found several well-recommended establishments, generally booked for shipping and receiving, but Otra knew well that there was always room to spare when money was no object, something that the clinking coins on her hip spoke true enough of to anyone within earshot. She accosted the wharfmaster - busy flipping sheets and shouting down coolies - in her usual manner, the volume of her voice quickly overtaking his own, and as a result her precious possessions were swiftly stowed in the most secure of repositories in a third of the time at half the cost for the usual tenday's fare. Satisfied, she left the trembling old man and made her way up the High Road (a name she could not conceive the origin of, it being no higher than any of the other ox trails masquerading as roads in this town), a second time past the Lady Luck Tavern in which her companion lingered, no doubt a stupid grin plastered on that pretty face, rocking back and forth in his chair, excitement barely contained. She didn't pause, deigning to make her way to the other side of town, to wander the markets and browse for a time.

One stall after another defied her interest, until she happened upon an old woman hunched over a counter, perched unsteadily on her stool as she crooked her bony fingers around some unobservable ornament. Otra glanced from left to right, noting the strings of dolls and puppets hanging from the crumpled stand's eaves and supports, like so many little gallows, their plain wooden faces betraying not a single emotion, but how could they regardless? She returned her focus to crone before her, who now held exposed in her hands a marionette of simple design, yet nonetheless charming in its mediocrity. Twisted loops of metal hung at the wrists and ankles, waiting to be strung, as well as one jutting from the top of the doll's head, sprouting visibly from the long, thick hair.

\"May I?\" Otra asked, holding out her hands. The crone bowed her head, a wide, toothless smile forcing her eyes shut, and gently passed the doll over. Otra could see where the fresh strands of twine had been twisted and pulled tight, tugging together the softly carved limbs, polished deep brown, bereft of detail. The segmented arms ended in round fists, the feet being nothing more than flattened ovals, and yet it for all its lack of anatomy and structure, the thing was still undeniably feminine, so suggested by the hourglass curve of the hips and jutting chest. The face was unadorned, two holes punctured above a slash of a mouth, straight segments of black hair lightly obscuring the oddly disquieting visage.

She looked up from the doll and asked the old woman,\"What hair is this? It's so fine, it couldn't be horse.\"

\"Human,\" she croaked, smile still wide. \"Me grandaughter ain't fond of her veggies, so I take a knife to her hair everytime she throws her plate. Still hasn't learned, and she's more piebald than her old man. Shame too, since she's a pretty face.\" The old hag cackled, and Otra's polite smile wavered into a straight line, unknowingly imitative of the doll she clutched against her belly. She looked down once more, eyes focused on the wooden face that mirrored her own, and saw not that little girl, but herself.

Just a little girl. Grown up, beautiful, prized above all else by her loving father. Perhaps too loving, as if to make up for being the only parent she had. Otra never knew her mother, never even saw her face. Her father had kept no paintings, but why should he have had to? The nursemaids had told her time and time again how much she resembled her mother, a perfect imitation, uncanny in each and every detail. Why should father want for a portrait to decorate the walls when he had instead a doppleganger of a daughter, trapped like an echo in their palace of a home, never allowed to leave for fear of her fading away and never coming back. A portrait cannot dance, cannot sing, cannot play and carvort and laugh and live, and therefore he had to make due with Otra.

A puppet to dance in front of so many prospective husbands, young men thirsty with desire, falling over one another to win her affections and her body as though she were a treasure to be auctioned off, and oh, sometimes the bid had been high enough to win some of her tenative attentions, but ever at the discretion of her father. For the most part, he used her, taunting others with what they could not have, what he would never relinquish, as such was the right of a father and a caregiver, rights on occasion stretched too far, grasping hands, lingering gazes both shameful and unconcerned, violation of mind and body, heart and soul. A doll made to play a part, whenever the loneliness and perverse desire grew to strong for morals to keep in check.

Otra didn't cry much anymore. After awhile, something broke, and she found a vast reserve inside of herself to keep things bottled up, self-contained, bad memories, bad thoughts, all inside. The doll's limbs scraped together in her grasp, slowly tightening even as her expression grew slack, eyes withdrawn. Father wanted a daughter to dance for him, but she had grown tired of those games. Otra had let her spite get the best of her, almost, almost get the best of her, and so she had sat for a time on the banister of their grand staircase, rope slack between her legs, looped around her perfect, slender throat. Can't sing with a broken neck, after all. Can't dance with your feet off the floor.

But no. The spite went away, to the same place as her tears, as with the hate and the depression and all the other bad, awful thoughts. Into that gulf inside her mind, that bad place where people put bad thoughts and bad memories so they could pretend to be regular, happy people. People with regular problems. So she left with all her things, the captain of the estate following at her heels like the foolish, lovestruck oaf he was. To his credit, he had weathered Otra's scorn for far longer than she expected, although perhaps he was just stupid. Stupid like Edward, not nearly as nice to look at though. The man hadn't lasted two days out of Baldur's Gate before he fled, distraught and heartbroken, Otra's laughter trailing behind him like a pack of angry crows.

And then she was free. To do what she wanted, whatever that was. Her eyes flicked from the doll in her hands to the ones lining the front of the stand, hung from hooks, nooses wound tight. Legs dangling in the midafternoon breeze, dancing, the smiles slashed across their vacant smiles oddly ironic in her mind. She looked at old woman, still grinning widely.

Her trembling fingers loosened their grip on the marionette in her fingers, one hand falling to the coin purse at her hip. For some reason, she wanted to cry.

Instead, she asked,\"How much?\"
