Two days on the road, early morning once again. Edward looked west from where he sat, towards the orange-red sky hunching protectively over the horizon. The wind carried the smell of salt and sea over the intervening farmland between the ocean and the Trade Way, defying the distance, just to abuse the young man's wrinkled nostrils (or that's how it seemed to him, at least). It was a scent new to him, yet quickly changing from something novel and refreshing to a stench altogether off-putting. Idle thoughts, pondering how any person could spend his or her entire life so close the shore, let alone the farmers that dotted the distant landscape as far as his eyes could spy them - between the fresh manure and the rotten sea-stink, Edward doubted they'd have any sense of smell past the age of twenty. Almost enough to make him lose his appetite. Almost. He stoked the fire, then returned his attention to the thin spit he had just finished unfolding and bracing against the soil, the rough, slender legs splayed out like some emaciated, headless animal. Untying the three twine strings from around the spit, he straightened them out and then beckoned his companion, open palm waiting.

\"I don't get it.\" She muttered, turning the long piece of metal over in her hands, fiddling with the clasps tenatively, too apprehensive to twist them in either direction.

Edward smiled and took it from her, grasping the folded device in both hands, sliding his thumbs between the crease at the top. \"It's a pot. You just need to unfold it.\" The cast iron, four pieces of slightly-curved metal hinged together at four points, whined as he tugged it apart, forming a rough circle one hand's breadth high along the side. \"Pass me the disk over there,\" Edward said, observing the wonder dancing in Otra's eyes as she passed him the piece. He set the thing into the frame, grunting as he pounded it flush against the flanged base. He then twisted the clasps upwards - now revealed as hooks - and connected them to the three hoops of twine dangling off of the matching spit.

\"Now it's water-tight. Pass me the skin, please.\"
Otra complied, still watching, slightly awestruck at the simple ingenuity of it. \"That's terribly clever.\"

\"I thought so aswell,\" he smiled, taking the lid and sliding it over the pot. The water would be boiled soon enough.

\"Where'd you get it?\"

\"Triel.\"
\"Where's that?\"
\"Elturgard, a long way back.\"

Otra nodded, content to sit back and watch as he removed some salted meat-like object, a dried sausage of sorts, and begin to slice it into the cloth on his lap. Edward wasn't concerned by her lack of assistance - he always made his own breakfast, although the past two days he hadn't really had the opportunity to, since they hadn't bothered camping long enough to prepare anything other than cold travel rations. Oddly enough, his companion, despite lacking any sort of objective or schedule, seemed awfully concerned with stopping as little as possible. I'd prefer we keep going, no need to slow down. Daggerford is just up the way.' Edward had several inklings as to why this Otrallia kel Tannith was so intent on a swift journey. From earlier conversations, Edward was unsurprised to find her a noblewoman, and as such he suspected Otra was simply uncomfortable without a bed to sleep on, which was a simple deduction to make due to the fact that she had rarely paused for a moment's breath between her endless volleys of complaining on the subject.

He removed the lid and poured in the oats, stirring it gently with the tip of his knife before replacing the lid, noting the disproving glance the action elicted from the woman. He smiled sidelong as he returned to his cutting.

\"What's the point?\" She inquired suddenly.

\"Hmmm?\" Edward didn't look up. He knew what was coming.

\"A folding pot.\"

Hadn't taken long for her to find something wrong with it. He shrugged. \"Saves space. They all hook together, and it's easy enough to assemble. Sort of fun to mess around with.\"

\"Surely it takes up more space length-wise than a regular pot would, fun notwithstanding.\"

\"I suppose.\"

\"What sort of idiot spends more money on something that doesn't even do what it's made to do?\"

\"It boils water fine.\"

\"The point of the thing is the convenience, Edward. It's not convenient if it still takes up lots of room. It even takes longer to set up, and what'll you do when it breaks? All those moving bits, they'll come apart soon enough, then you'll have a leaky, useless pot that folds up but still takes up room.\"

He paused a moment before replying.

\"...so?\"

Otra huffed. \"So? It's a stupid gimmick. It's silly.\"

He returned a smile.

\"You're absolutely right. It is silly.\" Edward replied nonchalantly, removing the lid and dumping the piled contents of the cloth into the bubbling mash of oatmeal. Shaking the remnants of salty pork from the greasy linen, he stirred again, closed the lid, then busied himself with wiping off the edge of the knife before setting it aside. Glancing upwards, he could see the frustration flickering into life behind the blue of Otra's eyes. She was smart enough to know when he was making fun of her. They held eachother's gaze for several more seconds before the woman looked away, choosing instead to investigate something interesting she had just found on her nails, trying in vain to conceal her anger. All of their conversations had been as such since they had hit the road together.

To be honest, Edward was somewhat embarassed in the small of his mind. Embarassed at the way he so easily baited her into anger, at the childish satisfaction he found in the downturn of her mouth, the furrow of her brow, the way his simple words set her wroth and foaming. Otra was smart, oh yes, that much was clear. That he had learned quite quickly during the last two days of their shared journey. Smart, stubborn, and arrogant. Something about that rubbed Edward the wrong way, which concerned him greatly as he lay in his bedroll at night, thinking long into the night about many things (mostly women these days, he noted). Edward normally wasn't the sort to think ill of people, especially not womenfolk. Of course, the words he and Otra traded were never openly disrespectful, and the Edward never said anything outright insulting, but the intent was there nonetheless. He enjoyed getting under her skin, just for the sake of alleviating his boredom - trying against himself to enrage her with as few words as possible, as often as he could manage. A new quality of his that he was vaguely ashamed of.

Edward replaced the knife in his pack and withdrew a ladle, two cups and two spoons, all tin, offering one of each of the dishware to the woman stewing opposite him. Otra, of course, ignored his gesture, eyes still fixated on whatever imaginary speck she had found on her finger nail. Edward sighed inwardly, shaking his head as he leaned back, setting the cup and spoon upon one of the round stones lining the firepit. Otra wouldn't be speaking to him for awhile, not until she had to. Wanted to. She wouldn't last long, of course, her overwhelming desire to fill the silence being what it was.

In the last few days, there had been very little time for silence. Otra always had something to say, some bothersome question to ask, some noise to make, a song or two to sing or strum on one of the myriad instruments she carried in the vast conglomerate of possessions occupying the back of the wagon they rode upon. Not one at all for inward thought, for appreciation of the quiet two friends can share between them, as though the woman wasn't happy in anyones presence unless they were granting her their complete and undivided attention. What are you thinking about, Edward?' She had asked him, so many times over and over as he sat beside her, head bowed beneath the barrage of sound streaming unending from the pretty hole in her face. He would look at her and see no actual interest in her eyes - just a rhetorical question to goad him into engaging her in conversation, walking wide-eyed stupid into a never-ending back-and-forth, trapped answering question after question until he couldn't think of anything else, falling instead into bothered silence. And that was how she won. How she was better than him. Never at a loss for words, never without something clever or charming or interesting to say.

Extrovert and introvert, opposites by their very nature, and in so short a time together he had already grown weary of it. It was how he justified his friendly mockery to himself. It made sense to Edward, at least.. Gods' warrant, he'd seem a self-important jackass to anyone unaware of his and Otra's particular dynamic, casually driving her into foaming rage just to shut the girl up. He removed the lid from the pot and examined the bubbling contents. Content with shade of the mash, he ladled a few spoonfuls of the meat-studded oatmeal into his cup and set it in his lap, blowing casually at the steam that curled up from its agitated surface. Noting the growing warmth of the metal in his lap, he set it and the spoon into the grass at his side, drumming his fingers against his chin as he waited for the morning breeze to cool it for him. Otra was still occupied with bitter self, now examining the ends of a fistfull of her hair, pulling at a few of them, searching for splits or tangles. She was beautiful, Edward noted, concerned with the increasing frequency at which that though poked into his head. Oh, it was no secret, she knew it aswell, but Edward knew the type of girl such knowledge bred.

Lady Otra. He could see the nobility in her, clear as the slowly-dawning day behind him: the slender, unplucked brows. The startlingly deep aquamarine of her eyes, sharpened at the edges by some manner of black paint that she applied each morning. The graceful curve of her petite nose, hovering over fully painted lips. She had a doll-like quality about her, her heart-shaped face with that pale spotless skin, evoking images of a porcelain doll sitting on a display shelf, bedecked in ribbons and laces and all sorts of unaffordable finery. Edward had seen many girls in his time, but none but one rivalled the qualities of the well-endowed woman lounging before him. Sleek calf-hide leathers - a noble's hunting attire, he gathered - hugged the curves of her chest and hips admirably, cut short and wide in certain places, exposing perfect swaths of belly and cleavage in strategic attempts to attract wandering eyes (at which they succeeded impressively). Long hair ribboned just past her waist, thick and straight, long bangs tucked loosely across her forehead and over one ear, hanging unadorned at the sides to frame her face and further down to rest languidly on her ample chest. The perfume she wore, ingrained irrevocably in Edward's mind, that Otra dabbed carefully on her neck during her morning rituals was intoxicating, overwhelmingly sweet. The smell of peaches, so said the tiny bottle. Edward had never eaten one himself and yet after lingering in her presence for so long, the desire to try one had been steadily growing in the back of his mind.

\"What are you thinking about, Edward?\"

The odd emphasis of the question jarred him back into awareness. He had been staring at her for how long? Long enough for her to notice, the coy smile on her face revealed that much.

\"Peaches.\" He replied quietly, rubbing his face to disguise the tingling warmth beneath his cheeks, stoked relentlessly by the sight of her encouraging smile.

Then she laughed, a wonderful sound. Like deep birdsong. Charming. Playful. Not at all sarcastic.

\"Do you have any sugar, perchance? Or honey?\"

\"No. Unfortunately.\" Edward replied, seeing her take another spoonful of oatmeal from her cup - he glanced down at where he had left his own, only to find it suspiciously absent. He then noticed the empty cup near the fire where he had placed it, still untouched.

Otra's smile spread into a grin, eyes dancing with more of that laughter, mouth busily wrapped around another spoonful of mash. She dipped her chin and drew the utensil from her puckered lips, a slow, pleasured moan escaping her throat that far exceeded the reasonable reaction one would expect to receive from eating boiled oats and dried meat. Her heavy-lidded stare was locked on Edward, showering his mind with all sorts of... thoughts. Otra was clearly pleased with the taste of her - his - meal, although it was clear she was only trying to get under his skin in some petty attempt at vengeance. He shifted in his seat, too uncomfortable to be bothered by the success she was achieving.

\"Oh well. It's quite delicious, despite the lack of flavourings. You should have some, darling, before it burns.\" Another spoonful, another moan of delight.

Edward nodded tentatively, greatly unbalanced by her playful prodding. He carefully hooked the tip of his foot underneath the frame of the spit and lowered it to the ground, pot swaying softly to the ground away from the fire, settling without so much as an errant tip. He then removed the lid, gave the still-bubbling mixture another stir, and went to fetch the cup still sitting on the ring of stones with his other hand. Unfortunately, unbalanced and unaware, Edward did not immediately notice the excess of heat radiating from the cup, even as his fingers wrapped around the mottled surface. It wasn't until his fingers were well engaged that the cup, already intimate with the flesh of his hand, released all that heat, searing the rough underside of his palms and fingers, bubbling flesh faster than a heart beat. All kinds of colourful things exploded from his mouth as he flung the cup away, into the bushes, gripping his spasming fingers tightly, kicking his feet, eyes squeezed shut to shore against the reflexive surge of liquid that flooded his eyes.

Mocking laughter filled the air, like deep birdsong. It wasn't so charming, this time around.
