Opening Narrative — Daggerdale 1481: War in the Deep

Source: Emails from Les Blackwell to the group, 4-5 July 2011. Subject: 'Opening Narrative - Daggerdale 1481 - War in the Deep'. Includes Iolus's (Steve Hicks) in-character response and Les's continuation.

Summary: Les's opening narrative for the 1481 campaign arc. Set at the daily Situation Report in Loedgan's Hall at Castle Radiance, Ches 28th 1481. Knight Commander Cassius of the Order of the Lambent Shield reports on Netheril's search for the West Gate of Tethyamar under Curator Loki Mouvranesh. Lord Luminous Whitegate calls for volunteers to assist Tethyamar in the War in the Deep. Ambassador Gambledin speaks for the dwarves. Crudach Geldrickson hires the Redjacks (Captain Hastle Blackwater) for Tasster Gellinson. Brother Darred of Candlekeep speaks for Tezster Gellinson. Cormyrean diplomat Jojn Tunbridge declines to commit Purple Dragons; General Stuart Angleton objects. Captain Iolus Warburton of the White Cloaks declares for Tezster. Names Sun Blade captains and lieutenants cheering in response. Also names Bargle.

---

Opening Narrative – Iolus at the Situation Report, Ches 28th

You are diligent in your attendance of the daily Situation Report at Loedegan's Hall. So diligent, in fact, that you now have 'your' spot in the Hall; second Tier, behind the Order of the Lambent Shield. Having come every day to the Report, you notice the pointed increase in attendance today; yesterday there were only a handful of people here, but this morning the place is nearly full. The blessed light of Amuanator has broken through the snows on the trails in the mountains, and the campaigning season has begun. Two days early, too.

The report begins with the usual prayer from Zenith Lord Whitegate, this morning constantly interrupted by the jostling of late arrivals. The Zenith Lord's older brother and Lord of Castle Daggerdale, Luminous Whitegate then makes his usual address to the crowd; it is no different today for the 100 men in the room than it was for the 8 or 9 yesterday. He is brief and to the point, and quickly calls on reports from various scouts.

A dozen men scattered around the room step forward to give reports, marking significant activity on the huge sand-table map in the centre of the room. There is much activity to report, as the mountains and the hills around them are starting to come to life, and new conflicts are just starting to blossom. However, it is the final report that everyone has come to listen to this morning. Knight Commander Cassius of the Order of the Lambent Shield arrived late last night after a hard ride through muddy mountain paths to deliver his message, and word of his late arrival got around quickly.

Cassius, like the many other Knights at the report, stands in the first row. His men make way so that this large man, made larger for his prodigious and gleaming plate mail armour, can move past, and into the centre of the room to take a spot before the map. He clasps wrists with the Lord of the Castle, who is also the highest ranking Knight of his Order. Cassius addresses the room, and with his impressive helm under his arm, the face of the man is clear to all. He is not a handsome man; his is a nose that has been broken and worse a dozen times. His face is a map of pock-scars and battle scars that make for a confounding topography, and the one ear he has left is rugged and cauliflowered. Despite this, the man has a bright demeanour, and when he is at his most enthusiastic in his orations, there is a barely-perceptible nimbus about his crown that even the Whitegates become distracted by. Cassius is the very picture of a Knight of the Order, and his sanctity is a crown.

The voice of the Knight Commander is loud and clear, but he lacks the brashness of many of the leaders of his profession. He takes his time to choose his words, and uses those he chooses sparingly, and delivers them deliberately. His is more the voice of a patient father than an aggressive warrior.

"I bring intelligence from our north-west" Cassius begins, pointing his sword at the sand-table in the centre of the room, aiming it at a small carved wooden tower that represents Fort Sansum. "Our war with Netheril is not over, but it shall be much different this campaigning season. We will not see armies arrayed against us, or hosts of thousands on the march. Prince Melagaunt does not have the resources to conduct such.

"However, he has multiplied his efforts to locate the West Gate of Tethyamar. The mountains to the north of Fort Sansum" and with this, he points at several key locations on the sand table, and a yellow-garbed clerk quickly inserts little flags at each one "are crawling with scouts and spies. Excavations are under way at a dozen locations. Melagaunt's Curator, Loki Mouvranesh is conducting this operation. Netheril is aware of the War in the Deep, and Melagaunt has tied his fortunes to this war.

"Tethyamar is the means by which Netheril could march a host into the heartland of the dale. It is also the means by which we can place a new ally in an aggressive posture at the edge of Netheril.

"I, Knight Commander Cassius of the Order of the Lambent Shield, have been given the task of stopping Mouvranesh before she can find the West Gate. I have the resources I need to make it difficult for her, but I think it is time for some of you in this chamber to commit yourselves to the War in the Deep."

The room is then filled with dozens of voices, some hushed, many not, discussing this development and the advice given by Cassius. There are heated discussions within and between many groups, and clearly, the politics and strategic significance of Tethyamar is a complicated issue. Finally, Lord Whitegate raises his hands and the room falls to silence.

"Thank you, Knight Commander" Luminous says to his subordinate, who bows and gives off one last nimbus that catches the eye of all those in the room. He returns to his spot among his men. Luminous then continues.

"Cassius is right, and his report is timely. I have been in negotiations with the Embassy of Tethyamar recently. The War in the Deep is not going well; the Lower Halls are held against our dwarven allies, and they are in a defensive posture. I am confident that they will not give ground; who can extract a host of dwarves from a hall of stone?" A short round of chuckles and grunts of approval follows this comment.

"But Tethyamar is vast, and their numbers few. Currently, they wage war against the monstrous squatters that have violated their home for centuries. These foes are proving to be difficult and intractable at times. Our peril is this; that Tethyamar is not taken before Netheril finds the West Gate, and either eradicates the monstrous denizens therein, or worse, makes allies of them. In either event, we do not want Netheril in there before our dwarven friends and allies can make the West Gate, and hold it against them.

"For our part, the people of Daggerdale will fund the effort to stop Netheril, by waging an intense campaign in the mountains. But we will also need volunteers to assist our friends in the Deep. It is time for us to repay Tethyamar for the Siege of Fort Lastsun. Who will declare themselves for Tethyamar?!"

With this, the room is again a noisy chaos of dozens of conversations, arguments and gesticulations. Bargle's voice is heard above the din, temporarily bringing silence and focus to the room. "Is there a bounty tied to this call to arms?" All eyes then go to Lord Whitegate.

Luminous looks Bargle in the eye, and the slightest glimmer of annoyance, or perhaps disappointment, crosses his face. "There is not."

Again, an eruption of voices interrupts the proceedings. This time, a few captains actually begin to leave, their clattering armour and weapons and jostling past other men in the room a conspicuous distraction. The meeting is brought to order by the booming voice of Lord Whitegate.

"Attention!" he booms, his voice now that of the legendary battlefield commander. None can resist his command, and many who were leaving stop dead in their tracks. "There will be order here, even if courage and honour are wanting!" The heads of many men bow in shame.

"There is no bounty tied to the War in the Deep, because it is outside of the jurisdiction of Daggerdale. We recognize Tethyamar as an autonomous state, an ally and friend. We will not usurp their authority with our gold. However, I will let Tethyamar speak on the matter. Give ambassador Gambledin your attention and respect, or I will correct you personally. Ambassador…"

The dwarf that ambles down the steps to stand beside Lord Whitegate is known to many in this room; the Tethyamar League, which the Embassy was known by until this year, posted dozens of bounties, and this dwarf lined the pockets of many a company in this room. He is known to be direct and a little gruff, in the manner of his people, but also fair and generous. He is a little red in the face after the admonishment of the crowd on his behalf by Lord Whitegate, and begins with an awkward laugh.

"Well, now that that's settled!" Gambledin begins with a wide-eyed expression of something between surprise and fright. "Tethyamar does in fact need help. The War in the Deep progresses slowly, which is the way our people normally like things. However, this problem with Netheril getting involved changes our time-frame and expectations." As he is saying these words there is a little bit of commotion in the crowd; first, a dwarf standing with Captain Hastle Blackwater of the Redjacks says something that makes those nearby all take him and the captain in. Shortly after that, a well-known scholarly-looking fellow named Brother Darred begins to descend the steps. Before Darred reaches the bottom of the steps, the dwarf beside Blackwater speaks up.

"Oi! I'm Crudach Geldrickson! Cousin to Tasster Gellinson! Hammer of Clangedin Silverbeard! I have hired the Redjacks to assist Tasster in reclaiming the Pillars of Moradin, and to defend his claim to the Throne of Tethyamar!" The large, mail-clad dwarf slaps Blackwater on the lower back firmly, then raises his hammer in the air and shouts "For Tasster! For Clangedin!"

Blackwater draws his blade and raises it, and echoes his new employer's oaths; "For Tasster! For Clangedin!" A barely-perceptible grin crosses his lips as he does so.

This begins a new round of discourse in the aisles of the room which is quickly diminished with a scowl from Luminous. At that moment, the priest from Candlekeep makes the bottom of the steps, and bows slightly to Luminous and the dwarf beside him. Gambledin speaks up again.

"I see that Brother Darred, Emissary from Candlekeep, has taken the floor. Speak your piece, friend!"

The old monk clears his throat and looks around nervously. The Candlekeep Emissaries aren't known to frequent the situation reports, and only rarely do they give voice. "I speak on behalf of Tezster Gellinson, brother of Tasster and claimant to the throne. He too is ready to find champions among his human allies to help him conduct his campaign in the Deep, to free Tethyamar from the clutches of evil creatures, and to provide a strategic ally in the war against Netheril. Tasster offers friendship, titles and allotments to those who declare for him…" His words trail off as there are hushed protests and snorts of amusement and disapproval at the offer.

Luminous again scowls, reigning in the room as it begins to overtake the timid monk. Again, in his commanding voice, he asks "Who will declare for Tasster? Who will champion this friend and ally?" He looks first to Bargle. Bargle's lips press together tightly in annoyance, before he looks about, sighs, and responds;

"My men need to work for something with a bit more jingle than friendship and titles. Allotments we are familiar with, but I doubt most men in this room would find the…payment schedule…to their satisfaction."

Luminous gives the man a contemptuous look that forces Bargle to lower his gaze. The Knights and Sun Blade captains in the room shake their heads in reprimand, sharing the unspoken sentiment of their leader. Now, eyes begin to turn to the Cormyreans. They have a spot on the second tier of the room, and their host is always noticeable; Purple Dragons in gleaming armour escorting the reputable diplomat, Jojn Tunbridge. Today, John is joined by General Stuart Angleton, head of the military arm of the Cormyrean Embassy. These two men have been having a quiet discussion between themselves every time the room acted up, and now, they find themselves fixed by the gaze of Lord Whitegate.

John raises his hands a little by way of announcing he is about to speak, then calmly and confidently folds them on the desk in front of him. "The cause of the Tethyamar is just and consequential. However, I think that the lances of the Purple Dragons would do more good on the open plains of Netheril and the trails of the mountains than they would in the deep."

With this, the General gives a frustrated, angry growl, and shoots a glare into the side of the adjacent diplomat's face. "Do not suggest limits for my men, Tunbridge! We will fight in tunnels if need be. I'll march my men into the ocean or upon clouds if that is what's called for!" There is a brief outburst of cheers and laughs from the audience, which Lord Whitegate allows to play itself out; he seems to enjoy it.

"I meant no disrespect for the venerable Order of the Purple Dragons" the diplomat continues, his demeanour seemingly unaffected by the support the general seemed to get from the crowd. "The limitations I suggest are not those of military prowess, but rather political will. King Azoun does not wish to engage his men on a battlefield so distant from his own lands; Castle Daggerdale is distant already; those mountains north of Fort Sansum are another week away as an army marches. We are too few to commit to such an ambitious theatre of war. I apologize, but I cannot commit the King's men to such an endeavour, even though I must acknowledge the vital importance of it."

The calm words of the diplomat have a sobering and quieting effect on the room. Brother Darred seems utterly deflated, and Luminous wears a stoic face, trying subtly to scan the audience for a champion for this ally. His eyes move deliberately past the representatives from Cormanthor, who have kept silent and unmoving during these deliberations.

Lord Whitegate continues to scan the room, his clear eyes squinting slightly. "Who…?"

---

Iolus Declares for Tezster (Steve Hicks, 4 July 2011)

It was not difficult to see that Tethyamar would be another game board with which to array one's coloured pebbles upon and Iolus had been quietly collecting his own pebbles all while doing what he could to establish an information web throughout the Dale since becoming the Captain of the White Cloaks. Things had not gone quite as smoothly or in Iolus' favour as much as he would have preferred it over the last few months but this was an opportunity he was pleased to have prepared for in advance.

The thought of going under those mountains once more did not please him. The light of his Lord was nearly nonexistant in the bowels of the mountains and he had little desire to go there. He did have ambitions however and much like any place in the Realms, one needed coin, and reputation to fuel those ambitions and both of those things would be found in the ancient city of Tethyamar.

Even as he was smoothly standing, he was aligning his pebbles along the gameboard. Deciding who he would be taking on this journey, and who he would not. He spoke in a clear, firm tone.

"The White Cloaks will assist with the exploration and cleansing of Tethyamar and will do so, aligned with Tezster Gellinson."

---

The Room Responds (Les Blackwell, 5 July 2011)

"The White Cloaks will assist with the exploration and cleansing of Tethyamar and will do so, aligned with Tezster Gellinson."

With these powerful words from Iolus, the room erupts into a brief uproar; there are cheers from the military orders; Cassius himself turns around and looks up at Iolus, nods approval and offers his hand. Many of the Sun Blade captains around the room and their lieutenants likewise give a cheer and offer gratitude to the Captain of the White Cloaks. General Angleton, standing on the same level but across the room from Iolus, salutes him, and his four knights do the same in unison, following their leader.

From the floor, Lord Whitegate smiles and nods; he looks to Iolus first, and then takes in the support from the rest of the room, and marks with a sharp eye, those that do not offer their support. He and Bargle lock gazes for a moment, but Bargle is forced to look away. Bargle collects his sergeants and begins to depart.

From the third aisle, Geldrickson snorts in derision, and begins to leave as well. Captain Blackwater of the Redjacks, who stands across the room from Iolus, catches the eye of the Captain of the White Cloaks. He had been cowed by the booming and commanding voice of Iolus, but has again regained himself. He shoots a menacing smile towards Iolus, and lays a finger upside his nose, then points it at him. With this, the Redjacks begin to leave with their dwarven employer.

Lord Whitegate raises his arms patiently, a call for order. A couple dozen men have filed out of the room by this time, and others are shuffling about. The Situation Report is drawing to a close. Before it does, Whitegate says "We thank Captain Warburton of the White Cloaks, again, for his service and the service of his men." Lord Whitegate gives Iolus a look of genuine gratitude, which is also mixed with something akin to the pride a father might have for a valiant son.

"That is all for today, men. Dismissed!" With this, the room begins to empty, but there are, as usual, little groups that form and carry on conversations between themselves. This morning, being the first fully-attended Situation Report, the small group of clerics that was taking notes, marking the sand table and carrying on other duties are formed up by the Zenith Lord, and they begin a melancholy but beautiful chant to see the men on their way. Their unearthly voices fill the large stone room and resonate in the bones of those therein, causing the hair to stand up on the back of the necks of the faithful of Amaunator and others besides.

Lord Whitegate motions for Iolus to come down to the floor to discuss things. Ambassador Gambledin and Brother Darred are there beside him, as well as Knight Commander Cassius. The lot of them offer their deep gratitude to Iolus. Luminous crosses the floor to meet Iolus, and clasps him on his shoulders; the old Knight is nearly a head taller than Iolus, and decked in his armour such as he is, seems like a mountain next to the Captain. His face is beaming, and behind his eyes there is a subtle glow; the light of Amaunator burning inside this man, stoked by the presence of another.

"If we had ten men like you, Captain Warburton, I think Melegaunt's head would be on a pike outside these walls." Iolus receives another slap on the shoulders of Iolus from this huge old man. "There is much for me to attend to today. You too, eh? I'll leave you to it, and pray for your success!"

With this, Lord Whitegate, his brother the Zenith Lord, and Knight Commander Cassius begin to depart. Cassius stops briefly, and the other two turn to watch him address Iolus. Again, there is a faint nimbus of light about the man's head, and his eyes shimmer like Lord Whitegates'. He again offers his arm to Iolus, and in the warrior's embrace, says "You punch through from the east. I'll keep Netheril from punching through on the west. Deal?"

Standing, arm in arm with the Knight Commander limned in divine light, Iolus is the focus of those left in the room; the Whitegates, Ambassador Gambledin, brother Darred, and the few miscellaneous men scattered about the chamber. There is a certain acuity to this witness, and a palpable weight to the 'deal' that Cassius offers; there is something of a divine contract playing out between these men. The song of the clerics resonates up the spine of Iolus, and partially drowns out the words of Cassius. Partially.

Cassius's bright eyes look upon Iolus, awaiting reply…
