450px|right

==Vaer’Lith Katahr==

Two days after Mule Company arrived at Fort Lastsun, Master Knight Grendel tasked Knight Commander Kassius and his ride of paladins to return to the ruins.  The remnants of Mule Company, as well as a platoon of Sun Blades accompanied the paladins.

===An Advance Checked===

As soon as this force was out of the safe-zone of the Fort, they were constantly harried by Agents of Netheril.  Waves of Asabi slowed the advance of the force, and an entire company of White Face Clan ogres, numbering more than 30, attempted to intercept them.   Kassius managed to out manoeuvre the ogres, preferring to keep his troops riding hard towards their objective before engaging any threat they could avoid.

As they neared the site of the Netherese ruin, Corran noted how much sand had vanished in but a few days; the desert was nearly all gone, and the emerald grass of the plains was already sprouting through soil uncovered by the supernatural winds.  Off in the distance, a great plume of dust was seen rising, and after sometime it was observed that a huge herd of shiny black-furred antelope of some variety was closing in on the mounted soldiers.  As the herd approached to within a couple hundred yards of the company, it slowed its thunderous advance, and a huge male over 8’ at the shoulder came to the head of the pack.  This huge animal cantered closer, sniffing in the direction of the soldiers.  Kassius ordered his men to form up a defensive wedge, and this action probably saved the force from being completely obliterated; the large male cantered closer and closer to the paladins, soldiers and adventurers, and once it was about 100 yards away, it reared up, let out an unearthly shriek, and charged ahead.

The herd of thousands of murderous beasts thundered into mounted soldiers, but the wedge formation worked; the herd split on the formation, with Kassius at the head, slashing madly and deflecting the razor-sharp horns of the beasts as they drove past.  The huge male took a few passes at the company, and was able to eviscerate a Sun Blade on each pass, though he could not unhorse Kassius.  When the dust cleared, and the red-eyed beasts thundered off to the west, half a dozen men and twice as many horses were dead.  Mr. Bolinger was heard to commend the Commander on his formation, insisting that it had saved them all.  “This was not the first time my order has faced those demons” replied Kassius.  “We learned this formation though the misfortune of scores of good soldiers.\"

===Loki===
right
The force of Knights, soldiers and adventurers marched only a little while after the encounter with the deadly sables. They set up an austere camp for the night, Kassius explaining that they would rise before first light, and assault the Fort in force just as the sun was on the rise. Each and every man was exhausted from the day’s many assaults and hard ride, but a vigilant watch rotation was maintained.  The indefatiguable Corran kept sentry all night, and it was his ceaseless vigilance which saved the camp.

About four hours after they had set up camp, as most of the men were fast asleep, the camp was set upon by a great host of Agents.  This time, dozens and dozens of the malicious and devious Krinth were using the darkness to approach unseen, and Loki herself lead this attack.  Corran raised the alarm, seemingly without seeing a single enemy.  The enemy was indeed surprised by the early alarm, and when a group of knights charged out in full armour to face the sneaking Krinth, they were put to a temporary route.  However, the devious arcane assaults and trickery of the wizard, Loki, soon confounded the knights, and the Krinth were rallied.

A desperate battle ensued, as the Krinth swept into battle.  They had lost the initiative and element of surprise, but they still had the advantage of numbers and a slippery mage to tilt the battle in their favour.  Loki was able to tie down the mounted Knights with her devious magic, and groups of opportunistic Krinth would slide out of the darkness to attack groups of knights or soldiers, even some lone targets, that were confounded by her magic.  Several men died a frustrating death; held in place by necrotic tendrils swaying up from the soil, and then hacked apart from all sides by the mobs of cruel shadow-goblins.

The battle was only turned when Corran managed to spot Loki in the darkness.  He freed himself of the inky tendrils holding himself in place, and charged his Destrier through a throng of goblinoids, and crashed through the trees to attack her position.  He managed to skewer her on his lance, and her shrill scream made her minions cower and retreat immediately.  Corran dropped his shield to grab his lance with both hands.  He began to lift the Netherese wizard from the ground, her terrible injuring ripping and tearing even as she scrambled to grab the haft of the lance to minimize the pain.  She was lifted from her feet entirely, and as the lance was raised above the shoulders of the Tormite Paladin, the wizard slid down the haft towards him, seemingly unconscious with pain.  However, as she slumped into the man, her eyes opened, and a cruel and bloody smile crossed her face.  She spat blood in his eyes, and even as his sight vanished momentarily, he felt the weight of her leave his lance, and when he wiped the blood from his eyes, she was gone.

===The Katahr Fortified===

450px|right|thumb|Months after the last sands blew away from around the foundation of the fort, its original posture is revealed

The assault on the camp cost the lives of 8 more men.  Kassius formed up the men in the dark moments after the assault, and took stock of them. \"We have lost several men before we have even seen the towers of our objective\" he addressed all the men.  \"However, we will not falter now.  We will spend the rest of the night in wakeful vigilance, emulating our brother, Corran, Knight of Torm.\"  He nodded to Corran, and for the first time, Corran was seen to lift his face to these stern men of the fort.  Soldiers from Fort Lastsun never again looked down on the Tormite who received such high praise from a Knight Commander.

The rallying moment was in vain, however.  The men did indeed spend the rest of the night awake, sharpening weapons, oiling leather and plate, and brushing their mounts.  There was a quiet energy about the camp, as men prepared for battle in the smallest hours of night and morning, and long before the sun was up, every man was mounted and on the move.

As the sky behind the Desertsmouth Mountains started to turn a steely grey, the small host of mounted warriors crested a rise to the south of the Netherese Ruin.  There was short grass growing on this earthy hill, which just days before had been a dune of sand upon which Mule Company first espied the ruin.  In the distance the men saw something which no one in Mule Company could believe; the sand was gone, and a great fortress stood on a steep hill of fresh grass.  There were 8 towers, and they all flew fresh banners of the Empire of Netheril, and on every battlement were the shuffling shadows of the countless sentries which now fortified the old Katahr.

Things were only getting worse, even as they looked on to survey the situation.  From the west there was a long column of something marching towards the fortress.  The column was just a dark black ululating tendril through the hills of the twilight morning, but it was clear even from this distance of nearly a mile that there was a legion coming.

\"Never have there been this many Netherese Soldiers this close to our borders\" Kassius said grimly.  \"War has come.\"  He paused, then shouted for his men to hear him clearly \"War has come!  Follow my blade!\"  With this, he spurred his horse off in the direction of the column.  They had to approach nearer to the fortress, which gave them some reconnaissance opportunity, but this only confirmed what Kassius had already suspected; the Fortress was full of several companies of regular troops, and there were scores of archers and even some siege engines behind the walls which kept their galloping host from getting too near.

Kassius lead his men towards the column, working the horses into a heated slather.  He shouted back for the men to ignore the scouts and vanguard ahead, and to keep on his tail.  Indeed, many bolts and arrows flew through the grey morning as the charging knights, soldiers and adventurers chased Kassius.  Before they found the main body of the column, they were confronted by a company of mounted soldiers on black steeds, all leveling wicked looking spears at the onrushing company of Kassius. As he drew nearer, the Knights of his order formed up in a wedge once again, and the Sun Blades and Mule Company followed suit without so much as a command.  This time, the thundering hooves of Corran's destrier brought him alongside the paladin of Amaunator, and the two of them formed the head of the wedge together.  As they drew to within the final length of the charge, they both hunched down in their saddles, held their shields up firmly, and dug their spurs into the flanks of their mounts.

The collision of the wedge of knights with the line of mounted Netherese soldiers had the intended effect; the hardened point of the wedge, a pair of intractable paladins, crashed right through, sending riders flying off of mounts that reeled and recoiled from the violent collision, and each rank behind widened the gap as it sent more men and horses to the ground.  By the time the last ranks flew past, the Netherese were in full route, and the soldiers of Daggerdale had their way with the soft and slow belly of the column.

They rode all along the column, slashing at every target that presented itself, and threw many torches and skins of burning oil onto choice-looking baggage wagons.  After one pass of the half-mile long column, they had killed hundreds of men, and light the sky with burning wagons.  A few more knights and soldiers were missing from the ranks as Kassius veered the host to the south, and brought them to the top of a low hill, where he wheeled them all about.  The mounted soldiers formed up into a long line, and watched as the sun came up on a long and bloody string of bodies and burning wagons in the valley before them.

\"Daggerdale!\" Kassius shouted, as he raised his spear and shield in defiance of the mustering enemy in the valley.  In one voice, the blood-sated men of the dale replied;

\"DAGGERDALE!\"

350px|left|thumb|Knight Commander Kassius, after his charge against the Netherese supply column

===Escalation===

A day and a half later, the force returned to Fort Lastsun, where they found new recruits coming in; another platoon of 2nd Company Sun Blades was arriving with scores of mercenaries in-tow.  Off in the distance to the west, a small group of mounted Netherese scouts stayed just out of bow-shot, clearly counting numbers and estimating the strength of the Fort.  In the days and weeks that followed, scouts were always seen keeping track of the Fort, as mercenaries trickled in.

By the end of the summer, the Netherese made probing assaults on the Fort; no pitched battles were waged, but there was always a large force capable of sieging the Fort a day away; this was just close enough that Grendel was unable to send another force towards Vaer’Lith Katahr.  To date, the men of Daggerdale have not seen the walls of the Katar since Kassius rode against it.

===The Redjacks===

One of the mercenary companies that arrived at the Fort was the Redjacks.  This is a storied outfit that saw a great deal of action in Scardale, and it has often been rumoured that they fought on both sides of the conflict with Sembia at various points in that unfortunate struggle.  The presence of this company at the Fort is telling; in 1478, they were booted out of the Castle for interfering in a bounty that Gryphon Company was pursuing.  They were recently allowed to enter the Castle once more, though they have been under the scrutiny of a clerk named Jonas Millstone.

The Redjacks was the outfit that Dane Grimwald got his start in, and it was no secret that Dane left them under unfavourable terms.  Dane did not often spoke about his time in the Redjacks, but when he did, it was through clenched teeth and a snarl.  Whatever bad history they had between them now followed Dane's living companions.  A sergeant named Alexius Kvanov started asking about, looking for Dane, and and he was directed to Mule Company's camp in the Fort before long.  He showed up at the camp with a squad of mercenaries, and demanded to speak to the leader of the Company.  Corran came forward before any words between them could be spoken.

\"You!\"  the gristly looking sergeant spat through his teeth.  \"I should have known they would put the likes of a yellow-bellied deserter in charge of this puppy-shit rabble.  Your cowardice precedes you, Altair!\"

Corran's nostrils flared, and everyone could hear the draught of air that he took in, and the tension of anticipation of his reply could be felt on the back of everyone's neck.  However, before he could say anything, there came a voice from across the courtyard, and some commotion.  \"Kranov!  Kranov, I say!  Shut your scabrous mouth presently!\"  The yellow-robed form of Clerk Millstone came shuffling across the grounds towards the confrontation, and there was a collective sigh and much cursing among the mercenaries as the clerk hastily approached.

\"You were told to stay away from these men!\" Millstone continued as he came to within a few yards of the mercenary and the paladin.  The two took each took a step towards each other, and then the clerk was between them, pushing Kranov back.

\"You're a coward, Altair, and you kept the company of booze-soaked liars.  Grimwald was a damned liar!  This isn't over!\"  The leathery sergeant backed up a step, and slapped the hands of the clerk from his chest.  He turned, and came nose-to-nose with Knight Commander Kassius, who had overheard the matter.

\"This is, I assure you, over\" came the level and menacing voice of Kassius as he stared down at the sergeant.  \"If you approach this honourable knight again, or even speak ill of him aloud again, I will gut you and deliver your head to Sir Corran as an apology.  Am I clear?\"

\"Crystal...\" muttered Kranov.  The clerk, a look of worry and panic on his face, kept pushing Kranov away from the camp, and the mercenaries followed, all of them trying their best to avoid the glare of Kassius and Corran.

Kassius and Corran both nodded at each other, and went about their business.

==Return to the Castle==

400px|right
After a couple of weeks of doing scouting missions and other small chores at the Fort, Mule Company decided to return to the Castle.  They hooked up with a larger column that was riding back for supplies, and had a relatively uneventful journey back.

At the Castle, news had already arrived somehow about Mule Company's inability to carry out their bounty, and the dire consequences of that failure.  Although they had earned the respect of many of the soldiers of the Fort, they were met with derision and harassment at the Castle over the failure.

Bargle took the men into the tower to debrief them on the mission and the other happenings on the front, and was surprised to hear about the escalation of military forces on the front.  He brought the reports from his team to the Strategic Meeting the following day, which prompted a closed session with the team and various figure heads afterwards.  The Emissaries from Candlekeep also attended, and listened gravely to the description of the winds and the shifting sands.  Brother Darred speculated at the end of this meeting that the Netherese archaeologist, Loki Mouvranesh had uncovered a powerful relic known as the Imperiosus Orbis.  When Darred said this name, Argent was heard to say \"Are these the things you told me about before?\"

Darred simply nodded grimly.  Argent and his older brother, Lord Whitegate exchanged a concerned look, and dismissed the session.

==Disbanded==

\"I don't know what in the Nine Hells an Imperial Osus is, but it sounds like THEY wanted it kept from the Netherese\" Bargle said to his newest team in a controlled but visibly agitated manner.  \"I  think we have done irreparable harm here, and I'm not sure how to proceed, gentlemen.\"

What followed was an uncomfortable dismissal of the members of Mule Company.  Bargle let them keep the gear they had borrowed from him, as per his agreement, even though they failed to secure the bounty the deal hinged on.  He seemed like he wanted to be free and clear of them as quickly and as kindly as possible. Before the sun was at its zenith after the Strategic Meeting, Mule Company was disbanded, and its members found themselves in the courtyard outside of the Bargle's tower, parting company.

===The Wonderbringer War Forge===

Mr.Bollinger was the first to part.  He announced that he had pressing business with the Wonder Bringer Warsmiths, and that all this campaigning in the mountains and deserts and such just wasn't for him.

===The Pilgrim===

Banitt Harbaugh was saddened to see his new friends and erstwhile teammates part company so hastily, but he himself had other matters to attend to as well.  He brought his few possessions to the Fortress Cathedral, and was taken in by Zenith Lord Argent Whitegate without a moment's hesitation.  These two men maintain a very close relationship, and it was Argent who later introduced Banitt to his granddaughter, Lumina.

===A Voice from the Chaos===

450px|right|thumb|The Chaos Wastes north east of Fort Sansum

Corran Altair was again in the trough of his ever-adjusting pride.  He had won the respect of men that he truly respected himself, only to find himself dejected and looked down upon at the Castle.  He was able to focus on the Penance of Duty in order to steer himself through this challenging time, and remembered the tale of Maturin the Grey and his fall from grace.  Though he was in ill-repute, he stuck it out in the Castle, and endured the ridicule and scorn that was heaped upon him.

By the time the time the leaves started to turn, Corran found himself heading out of the Castle once again.  This time, he was headed to Fort Sansum, where he had spent many years training with Kesh and the other Tormites of the region.  They were all dead now, of course.  He could have gone to Fort Lastsun, where he had earned a reputation fighting alongside Knight Commander Kassius, but he decided to return to Sansum, where he did not have a reputation beyond that of sole-survivor of a failed mission to the Chaos Wastes north east of the Fort many years ago.

At Fort Sansum, he drew voluntary patrol duties with the hardened Sun Blades 2nd Mountaineers of the Fort, and the knights under the command of Master Knight Sansum.  Corran was drawn ever closer to the insane Chaos Wastes, where he would stare long into the swirling sands, remembering the words spoken to him long ago by the dragon that lives in the heart of it.

*\"If I ever see armoured men in my domain again, I will scour these lands, seeking the stink of your father, the scent of your mother, the perfume of your daughter. This is my oath. My oath, human; mark it!\"

The men of the fort started to gain tremendous respect for Corran, as his bravery and horsemanship became well known.  By the time the first snows were starting to blanket the mountains behind him, he was relatively comfortable among these men, and often had his noon-day meal with Sansum himself, whom he would exchange theological differences with.  However, he would not stay the winter.

Banitt came to find him.  He said he had some meaningful work for them to do, and worried that the knight was starting to loose his wits on this frontier.  \"You have no business leading men in and around that vortex, friend.  Not so long as your daughter lives, and you are without me to see your blade cut the monster's head off.  Let's go...we'll come back, I promise.\"

===Family Business===

thumb|450px|Grim finds the tomb of his ancestor and the famous blade he was buried with.

Grim (Erevan Ilythiirian) didn't stay a day after his discharge from the .  He made a hasty retreat from the Castle, and headed directly for Dagger Falls.  There, he stayed a few days, gathering any information he could about his family and the castle that Dorian had purchased a century ago.  It is known that his research brought him to the Historic Wing of the library in the Yellow Abbey, and that despite his dark skin and menacing countenance,he was somehow able to win a brief audience with Magistrate Hoetmer.  Shortly after this visit, he hired a few bodyguards, and set out for Castle Daggerdale.  What happened there only he knows.  He mailed a letter which briefly explained his findings, but he was most cryptic, and has not returned any correspondence since.

File:Erevan.jpg
