450px|left

By the end of Marpenoth, 1479, Lumina had her hands full.  Still trapped in her own memories and dreams part of the time, she was unable to meet some of the demands that were being made of her from those both above and below her.

It was her grandfather, Argent Whitegate who first approached her.  He had heard about her terrible ordeal in the Shadowfell, and heard through Alystair that the company was in over its head; Alystair was away most of the time with Tuugan, which left only Iolus and Troia to take care of bounties and other matters.  Argent spent many long nights with Lumina trying to put her back together again, and on many nights her screams could be heard from the aerie peak of the Fortress Cathedral above the Castle.  After a week of these sessions, she emerged, seemingly partially recovered, and with some direction.

She had heard about the Pilgrim, and his recent trouble with the Free Defense League.  Argent spoke for the Pilgrim, endorsing his character and ability, and it wasn't long before Argent arranged a meeting between his granddaughter and his favourite priest.  Banitt was, at first, a natural fit for the party, and before long the group was taking meaningful bounties again, though they lacked some of the hitting power they needed.

By this time, Lumina had procured the tower that would come to be known as White Cloak Tower, which sits on the outer wall of Castle Radiance.  Banitt (mostly) and Alystair convinced Lumina to convert the ground floor of the tower into a hostel for pilgrims and other travelers, which had the effect of raising the esteem of the organization in the eyes of all, the Church especially.  It also let the members of the team scout for new talent.  Every morning after Matins, many of the team would break their fast with their guests (to whom they provided free lodging and 1 meal/day), and get to know some of them.  From this venue they managed to recruit Sorashana and Rhuun of Thunder, and later, many others.

450px|right

By mid Hammer, braving the raging snows and the treacherous mountain passes of winter, Banitt went out to Fort Sansum to find his friend, Corran Altair.  It was easy for the pilgrim to take the paladin away, once he convinced him of his Duty of Penance, and demanded his protection (only partially in jest).  Corran returned with the Pilgrim, and joined the White Cloaks, bringing their membership up to 9.  With Tuugan and Alystair gone most of the time, and Lumina now taking care of more bureaucratic matters in the Castle, this left the six able members to take bounties.

The White Cloaks have been functioning well ever since.  In the spring of 1480, they recruited many more members, and run three teams;

*A field intelligence team, consisting of Alystair Dretch, Tuugan Swift, and Troia Trustar
*A difficult mission team, consisting of Iolus Warburton, Corran Altair, Banitt Harbaugh, Drake Sterling, Sorashana and Rhuun of Thunder.
*A novice team, consisting of the newest members, often lead by one or more veterans.

The White Cloaks, at the time of mid-summer, 1480 DR, are undergoing some restructuring.

To be continued...
