“Who decided it was a good idea to set the fire?” Nythria Medeila, one of the eight Marshalls of the kingdom of Cormanthor asked the question. The eladrin was the same height as Ineluki but carried herself in the manner of most eladrin, giving the impression of being as tall as a treant.

Ineluki Elderbough curled his upper lip in disdain as he responded, “It was I. It was my plan.”

Nythria’s face continued to show little emotion as she walked slowly back and forth before the younger elf. “No... no, Ineluki. I do not believe that. You are as loyal as you are short-sighted, and brave to a point well beyond foolishness but you are the steel head of the arrow. You are most assuredly not the hand that guides it.”

His upper lip held as he responded once more. “It was my plan.” He stayed where he had been directed to stand. There were no guards to hold him in his place. This was Cormanthor. They did not war amongst themselves and despite his intense lack of respect for his fey-cousins, the eladrin, they were definitely not the enemy. Despite the confidence he held in the actions that led to him being put before a Marshall, he was beginning to feel uncomfortable. It was the nature of eladrin to stay calm, but Nythria Medeila would give even other eladrin reason to doubt themselves. He was dressed as he always was; well-worn cloth breeches and nearly knee-high boots. Sparse and crude but effective hide armour covered his bare chest. Where his sun-darkened skin showed through, purple and green swirls could be seen, tattooed upon his skin.

Nythria let her calm facade lower for a heartbeat as she sighed. It was a sigh of frustration. The type of sigh that a parent would make after having to tell their child for the thousandth time about something they refused to believe. “Ineluki. You and your two companions are not the only ones that dislike the humans to west but the three of you clearly are not thinking about what you preach. You speak of a need to live in harmony with the land and the creatures that share that land. You say the humans fail to live up to this belief but you and your companions fail at this as well. The humans are also one of the creatures that share this land. They have been here for centuries...”

“...but not a century past this one,” spoke Ineluki; interrupting Nythria’s speech. Nythria’s composure faltered once more. He saw a momentary twitch of the pale, smooth flesh at the corner of her left eye – a tic so subtle that a human would never notice but was the equivalent of a human pinching the bridge of their nose with two fingers to stave off an anxiety-induced headache.

“The humans of Daggerdale have survived far worse than a trio of angry wood elves and...”

Before she could continue, Ineluki interrupted her once more, his tone angry and defensive.

“And what do you know of that? Your kind – our own kith and kin – fled from Cormanthor and hid in the west when it was your conjurations and your magicks that brought ruin to this forest. Mythals, and floating towers and shafts sunk deeper into the ground than anyone with any good sense would attempt. It was the clans that stayed. It was the clans that fought demons and worse for centuries until your kind returned. It was the clans holding Cormanthor that allowed you to come back, so what exactly do you know of anything that has gone on here for the last thousand years?” Nythria’s pale blue eyes narrowed for a moment as she responded, but her calm manner returned as she spoke.

“I know that Daggerdale has other concerns at this moment. Were it not for them being distracted with the remaining logistics of the war they had with Netheril...Were it not for them being distracted with being seemingly assaulted on all sides by lycanthropes, gnolls and orcs...I know that you and your companions should be thanking Silvanus each hour for having enough good fortune to avoid starting a war with the humans of Daggerdale because of your foolish actions.”

Nythria approached him with the grace that only eladrins could possess. She was older than him, far older although still lovely. She moved in a fashion that suggested she had studied dance for a century, only to study a swordsman’s footwork for a century beyond that. She reached out and touched five scars that were exposed on his upper left arm. Scars, he felt he had earned. Each scar symbolized a lumbering camp he had played a role in terrorizing and destroying. Her slender fingertip lightly brushed over one of the scars and her eyes met his once more. “You wear these...you display these like badges of honour. Were a human from Daggerdale to see these...they would not even know what they represent, Ineluki. They would simply see you as another feral, mad elf. If any were insightful enough to understand what the scars mean, then they would most likely attack you on sight. Here? Here in Cormanthor...I see these scars upon your flesh and I am embarrassed. I am embarrassed for you. I am embarrassed for your clan, and embarrassed for the kingdom of Cormanthor. You are above such things. We are the fey. We have time. These humans do not. In time, all will be as it should be.” Ineluki let out a short, sharp exhalation from his nostrils before speaking.

“The plan was mine, Marshall Medeila”

Nythria shook her head slightly before walking away and beginning to speak.

“Ineluki Elderbough. You and your two companions are to be held accountable for the damage caused, and harm done to citizens of Daggerdale. Ambassador Ryeliarlen Miritar is on his way here from Castle Radiance to gather the three of you and return there where you will be used as they see fit.

For the injuring of Lukar Rainyerd, you will serve under the command of Ambasssador Miritar and anyone else he deems fit for the total of one year.

For the injuring of Nandalus Eversmoore, you will serve under the command of Ambasssador Miritar and anyone else he deems fit for the total of one year.

For the death of Fanto Forester, you will serve under the command of Ambassador Miritar and else he deems fit for the total of ten years.

That is twelve years total that you will be serving those you feel are your inferiors. At any time, any of the three families can grant you forgiveness but they must come forward to Ambassdor Miritar on their own through no contact or urging from you or your two companions.

While in service, anything of value that comes into your possession will be accounted for. Half of everything that you and your companions earn will be collected and sent to the three families that you have harmed with your selfish and short-sighted actions. That is all.

Ineluki Elderbough, you are dismissed. Send in Cirdan Vardamir next.”
