[RAW - UNEDITED AND UNREVIEWED - extracted by automated process, not yet verified for accuracy or completeness]

atch for the CRH, and he continually lost ground all summer to because of this. Further, he thought he had annexed a failing company in the Dalael, but it turned out that he had the picture all wrong. Dalael managed to use Ersgul to bring them back into the game, and the Phaulkon Cargo (which turned out to be a major pot that everyone was playing for) was easy pickings after the losses that Ersgul had suffered throughout the summer, and also through the treachery and complications of the Anteos Family, upon which everything seemed to hinge.
From Agamemnon's letter...
The result of this heist, it would seem, is that the Dalael have come back this Season with greater numbers.  It is well known that the trip to Menzoberanzan, and back, takes 5 months, by the way used by the Dalael.  Five months after the Phaulkon Cargo vanished to the Depths, the Anteos Villa began to crawl with
unremarkable-looking elves
, and many of the Family interests were suddenly encircled by Jardeth Family mercenaries.  As well, an unprecedented supply of Underdark goods found their way onto our markets, through many legitimate channels.  It is my opinion, lacking sufficient evidence as it may, that the Phaulkon Cargo was used to purchase these goods, and bring more Drow to the surface.  This bears closer investigation.
Though I lack the political clout to attack the Noble Families that have dealings with the Co. Dalael, I do intend to nip at their heels; those businesses and connections they have that are found outside the protection of Noble walls and Noble rules.  Indeed, if the Dalael are responsible for the Phaulkon Cargo heist, they likely did not use Noble resources to manage this task.  And if they are responsible for this event, they are likewise responsible for the deaths the of the men who transported it, and also for  the death of Master Phaulkon, the father of my closest friend.
|wqlgb\V
ztoid_Z
{wsokgc_[
First day of Harvestide Festival
However, on the day of Harvestide 1371, news of a daring and bloody heist mars the festivities of the day. The merchant house Phaulkon assembled its last caravan for the season. It was to depart for Cormyr the next day, but it was attacked in the court of the White Bull. The New Knights of the Sword Coast, who had been hired to guard it, were all killed, as were all the usual caravan guards and the caravan master. A dozen citizens were killed by various fire-spells that were used in the heist. The entire caravan disappeared around a corner and into the sewers in a matter of minutes. The guard didn
t seem to get there on time
This heist ruined Phaulkon house, and the old master of the house, Phaulkon himself, hung himself. His villa, Phaulkonmere, would later be purchased by the CRH as a new base of operations.
Eleint 25	Gunnar's Tavern
Yarkul asks us to join Ersgul Alliance, which, according to Thagdul, is a ploy by Yarkul to put support behind Corass Anteos, a supporter of Ersgul (a friend of the Dalael) over Dulbrawan Anteos, a supporter of Drurginz (an enemy of the Dalael)
Eleint 30	Drurginz Harvestide party at the Thirsty Throat Tavern
Thagdul notes that Sabrel Lightstar from was part of the attack on the Phaulkon Cargo
High Harvestide
The first mission that the CRH and the NC decide to do is to raid the Wavesilver Villa. It is on this mission, in the basement levels, the stolen Phaulkon Cargo is found. It has been stowed away only recently. A very small portion of it is stolen by the CRH and NC members.
Marpenoth 1
Garth plants info, saying that Ersgul knocked over the Phaulkon caravan
Rufus donates his 2 bars of mithril to the House of the Moon
Esperel visits Alek Lenter to sell the mithril, gets a price of 1000 gp/bar but he recommends that we don
t sell it in town
Marpenoth 2
Thagdul agrees to move the mithril for us, which he will arrange through his factor, Gotlieb Erlgund
Teskul is captured by Garth, who defends himself by saying that
I was watching the place for Thagdul
.  Apparently Ersgul is building up a force to fight us.  We let him go.
The Zulpair family is moving the mithril for Thagdul
Marpenoth 3
Thagdul comes to the HQ to deliver a message. He has learned that Ersgul is going to be shipping the Phaulkon Cargo, by sewer, to a cog on the 10th. This cog, the Silver Pride, is captained by Semuldan Anteos. Semuldan, despite being the son of Korrass, seems sympathetic to the patriarch of the Family, Dulbrawan. Thus, he sold this information out, and so it came that a rogue named Gauntlet delivered this message to Thagdul, who in turn delivered it to the adventurers.
Marpenoth 10
The CRH and NC planned their ambush of the Ersgul/Phaulkon Cargo. The rogue Gauntlet was going to be leading the Cargo, and he had told the adventurers where to set up their ambush.
When the Cargo was seen coming down the channel, the ambush started. The fighting did not last long, however, before the Dalael showed their hand, and trumped all. The very floor of the sewers gave way and collapsed. It fell some 50
into a great chamber from which silver-sash-wearing drow issued from every dark hole. There were at least 20 of them, and the adventurers knew they were beat. The power of Ersgul vanished in that pit, as the Dalael butchered the few that survived the fall.
The green-eyed beholder Xulla made another appearance at this point. It and Quevin exchanged some harsh words before both sides made their egress. Rychel confronted Xulla, only to be turned to stone without any effort from the creature.
In the end, the entire cargo (valued at well over 100 000 gp) went into the UnderDark with the Drow.
Gauntlet somehow managed to escape.
Analysis
Company Ersgul put it
s faith in the wrong allies, it would seem. Yarkul
s Reprobates were no m
Microsoft Word 6.0 Document