, elder fey]]
\"Word of your actions have made their way to my ears. I am pleased, my son.\"

Eremus bowed his head as he knelt before his father. Ultho was now an elder fey, sitting cross-legged amongst a field of wildflowers. Since the death of his wife, Eremus's mother, he had not moved, clasping between his withered hands a single seed that had grown decades since to completely overtake the elf's mortal form, leaving very little of his body visible beneath the layers of bark and leaves.

\"I am but a servant of the Forest Lord.\" Eremus intoned, his voice trembling.

The old elf's features, what scant remains could be seen, twisted into a gnarled smile. His yellowed teeth sparkled in the twilight sun.

\"Indeed you are. You and your companions are the true children of Silvanus. I swell with pride at each victory I hear whispered on the wind, on the tongues of the trees, the calls of the birds. Cormanthor itself condones your deeds.\"

Eremus's breath caught in his throat. His eyes burned with welling tears.

\"However, you must remember your purpose, and the higher power you serve.\" Ultho admonished. \"I know the young, I was not so long ago like yourself. Pride comes swiftly and unseen to the successful. The Beastlord is ever present, always waiting, always ready. He will pounce upon you, and you will succumb to Malar's will if he so desires it.\"

\"Impossible,\" Eremus said, his eyes shimmering with raw defiance.

The old elf in the tree merely laughed, a wheezing, ethereal sound that floated off like an autumn breeze.

\"My boy, it is not so unlikely. Malar and Silvanus are reflections of one another, both working to the same end with only their means to separate them. The Beastlord demands bloodshed. For him, only the strong deserve to live - all others are but prey. You must temper his rage with the Forest Lord's benevolence. Your brothers, Ineluki and Cirdan, you must remain mindful of them. You three walk the razor's edge - you are the hunter, Silvanus's tool against those who would despoil our home. Ineluki is the body, the heart, the hand of retribution. Cirdan is the mind, the cunning, the driving force. And you must remain the soul, the guiding hand, the motivating spirit. Together there is nothing you three cannot accomplish.\"

\"It is as you say, father.\" Eremus bowed his head once more.

Silence hung in the air. Seconds passed that stretched into minutes. After awhile Eremus looked up from the patch of grass he had been focused on. His father was still smiling.

\"There is something you came to tell me, Eremus.\"

The avenger rose to his feet. \"I will be leaving Cormanthor, father. No good deed goes unpunished - we have been reprimanded by the Court and are to be banished to the west, to the human lands.\"

Ultho clicked his tongue and spat. \"Indeed. Swift to claim birthright to lands they so quickly abandoned, and now they outlaw Cormanthor's most honourable defenders? Cowards, all of them!\"

\"It will be scant years, father, I assure you.\" Eremus interjected, cutting off his father's furious oration before it built up too much momentum.

\"Nonetheless, a travesty this is.\"

\"At least you will have Silanda to keep you company.\"

Eremus's father frowned and fell silent. \"She has not told you?\"

\"...told me? Told me what?\"

The old tree merely grunted. \"I suppose this is a conversation the two of you should have, then. As for me, I think it is time for my rest. Farewell, my son. Cormanthor's blessing follows in your stride.\"

Without further word, Eremus turned and left the glade, marching purposefully towards the distant copse of trees his family had dwelt in these last few centuries. Originally created by his father as a shrine of Silvanus in which he held regular services, Eremus and his family had lived amongst the woven boughs since his birth - he had even brought his mate to stay here and tend to it. Things were well for a long time, until the round-ears came, settling ever closer to the forest's edge. They brought with them the coughing plague, which quickly took the life of his mother and younger brothers.

Eremus stepped easily through the twisting roots and thick trunks until he caught sight of the woman he loved, or once loved. It was a difficult subject for him to think about. She lounged near a pool at the center of the copse, lightly studded with fallen leaves and the petals of flowers that sprouted under the few dying shafts of light that pierced the leafy ceiling. Silanda gently fingered the gold chain around her neck. A gift, but not one from Eremus. The humans had taken most of his family, and now they sought to take his woman as well. His hands tightened into fists, sending tiny rivulets of blood running out from between his clenched fingers. This had been going on for months.

The female looked up from her own reflection, gazing into Eremus's face with a bored look in her emerald eyes. That stare used to knock the wind out of his lungs. Now it sickened him. It was the stare of the mindless cattle the humans raised for sustenance. She stood up and brushed the leaves off of the silken dress she wore, carefully plucking pieces of grass from the hem of the garment, adjusting it on her shoulders and over the fat belly she had developed over the past few months.

\"Where did you get that?\" Eremus stated coldly, gesturing at his own neck with his finger. He already knew the answer.

Silanda slowly walked towards him and tilted her head, revealing not a single emotion on her beautiful face.

\"He gave it to me.\" She replied, thrusting her words like talons into is flesh.

Eremus's face flushed slightly. He felt anger throbbing within his belly, creeping up his spine like a smoldering flame.

\"More ribbons for his prized pig, I see.\" He said disdainfully, plucking at the sleeve of the woman's dress. She recoiled slightly, stepping away from his grabbing hands, a storm brewing in her eyes.

\"He cares for me. There is nothing wrong with that.\"

\"You are not his to care for.\" Eremus snarled, advancing towards her.

\"Nor am I yours, and that was your decision may I remind you.\"

\"You babble nonsense, woman.\"

Silanda threw her hands up in the air. \"Of course.\"

\"I have obligations, you know that.\"

\"You have obligations to yourself. Your father. Your god. You're a zealot, Eremus, a cold-blooded murderer.\"

\"I am a force of retribution!\" The avenger shouted, inches away from the woman's flinched face. \"These humans are a plague, all of them. In their short-lived panic they take and steal and devour everything, trying to make meaning of their pointless lives. Something needs to be done before everything we hold dear is gone!\"

Silanda jabbed a finger into Eremus's chest, shoving him back slightly with surprising strength. \"What gives you the right?! You know nothing about them, nothing about him! He's taught me things while you are away. To read, to write, to dance. Eremus, they are so much more than you give them credit for. You...we are not superior to them!\"

\"We ARE superior to them!\" Eremus had her by the wrists, gripping them tight. He felt the bones beneath her skin, almost undetectable under the thickness of it. The sweets this human had brought her had turned her into a cow, an embarrassing shadow of what she once was: strong, beautiful, wild and free.

She tugged herself away and slapped him. Hard. Eremus felt thick liquid roll down his cheek, ride the edge of his chin. For a short moment, he loved her once more.

\"Are those your words, Eremus? Is that what you truly believe? Or is that merely the broken old father living vicariously through the son?\"

She crossed the line. Eremus buried his fist in her stomach, sent her sprawling. Silanda cried out, curled into a ball, her whole body squirming in the grass as she wrapped herself around her wounded gut. The avenger could see tears in her eyes before she looked away. Eremus was perturbed at how soft, how vulnerable his former lover had grown. Then he saw that it was not her own pain that she was worried about, as the woman frantically rubbed and coddled her distended belly.

Grim realization left him speechless as her sobbing lessened. Eventually the woman got up onto her knees, still gripping her abdomen with both arms tight. Eremus stared hard at the back of her head, grasping for words that he was too afraid to speak.

He found his mettle.

\"Whose is it?\"

\"I do not know.\" She replied.

Eremus was reeling, unsure of what to say next in order to mend what he knew to be the unmendable.

\"I'm leaving with him, two days from now. He wants to take me to Cormyr, to show me his life, his world.\"

Anger flared up once more, but it was swiftly extinguished by helplessness and shame. \"To show off his tamed savage. His trophy wife.\"

\"He loves me.\" She murmured, disconnected, still rubbing her belly.

\"You will bear him children only to watch them die. You will bury your entire family before this hundred year span comes to close. You curse yourself to a life of loneliness and sorrow, Silanda.\"

She turned to look at Eremus with eyes filled with what he hoped was sadness. Instead all he saw was bitter determination. \"A life you yourself have prepared me for these last twenty years.\"

Eremus watched her get up and leave, passing through the trees like a fleeting spirit. He would never again see her face.

After several minutes of thought, he decided that in the end this was a good thing, for her and for him.

The fact that she may be carrying his offspring was the only thing that had kept Eremus from removing her head.
