Elven in origin and brought to Waterdeep when she was a small child by Captain Nedard Moonstar.  Adopted by the Moonstar house in Waterdeep and raised as one of their own at the request of Nedard.  With the family having extensive ties to the Selûnite faith in Waterdeep, Priya was indoctrinated in the Selûnite faith as she grew older.

Priya flourished under the tutelage of her adopted father Doran Moonstar, brother to Nedard and became one of the more promising and skilled priestesses that had began their studies in the last ten years.

With the potential that Priya showed, there was much speculation regarding whether or not she would be groomed for higher positions in the Waterdhavian hierarchy of the Selûnite faith.  Her elven heritage proved to be a bane rather than a boon regarding this.

The Wavesilver family as well as the Adarbrent family, both with extensive ties to the Selûnite faith as well as having personal investment in the matters of succession regarding higher positions in the church of Selûne took exception to Priya's elven heritage.  They as well as a few other Waterdhavian noble houses feel that successors should be chosen from individuals that have a proven past with the church, through service, as well as blood rather than simply falling into having the \"proper name\" at the \"proper time\".

When Priya reached her twentieth year, and an appropriate time where exceptional priests and priestesses would be chosen to move into greater and greater levels of the Selûnite faith's hierarchy, Priya was chosen to accompany another priestess on a pilgrimmage to the east, to a location that was of interest to the Selûnite faith as well as observe and document the studying of a woman by the name of Miri Tremalkin.

Priya's adoptive father, Doran; bristled at the assignment but ever faithful and obedient supported the decision of the church even though he was sure the decision had been swayed by the Wavesilver and Adarbrent houses.

Weary of the politics of Waterdeep, Priya was releived to be free of the drama in Waterdeep and looked forward to having a chance to see more of the land around the city she had spent much of her life in as well as learn more about the Tremalkin bloodline, a name with a history that had become a tale of caution and sadness for the Selûnite faithful in Waterdeep.

*I have much more to add, but this is enough to prime the pump, so to speak 

Moonstar
category:Cait
Moonstar
