Quick Axes 
Owner: Dalak Quick Axe 
Employees: 1 bar tender (Daygle Stonebridge, Dwarf), 1 innkeeper (Jewel Stonebridge, female Dwarf, wife to Daygle), 4 waitresses, 1 cook, 2 kitchen staff, 2 chambre maids, 1 master brewer (Dalak), 1 apprentice brewer. 
Description: This is one of the larger buildings in the Falls. After the defeat of the cult of Bane in the town in 1372, the buildings that housed the cult were given to the Eastern Storm in gratitude for their efforts in freeing the town and the nearby mines. The Eastern Storm left town shortly after, and deeded those properties to their now-retired companion, Dalak Quickaxe, and his brother, Balak. Both were expert brewers, and built a successful business quickly. In the early 1400's, the dwarves demolished the small buildings and replaced them with the large 2-storey stone building that dominates the Old Square today. This is dwarven construction which is more functional than beautiful, but the place is warm and inviting. On Market Days, the place is packed with merchants and buyers who have come to take advantage of the market, and there is usually live music these nights. The main taproom is flanked by two roaring fires, which usually have many locals seated around them drinking the fine beers that the establishment produces. Upstairs are several good-quality rooms that can be rented by visitors to town, as well as one suite where the operators, Daygle and Jewel Stonebridge live. In the winter months, the taproom attracts locals who are looking for a warm place with great beer and music, in contrast to the other less-entertaining local establishments. 
Goods and Prices: The drink, food and rooms here are all of good quality, though not fancy. 
. Mug of beer (Sungold Ale, BitterRock Porter, Black Iron Lager) – 1 cp 
. Glass of wine: Many varieties, house wine is Ashaba Dusk (red) from Saerloon – 1-3 cp 
. Bottle of wine (many varieties), 2-5 sp 
. "Dinner" – only serves one meal each day, which is always a square and hardy dinner (served from 1 PM – 10 PM), usually involving a mutton stew, breads with butter and jams, seasonal or preserved greens, served with a mug of beer or glass of wine – 4 cp 
. "Light Dinner" – a plate of bread, butter and cold meats – 2 cp 
. Private room for 2 (rooms C, E, H, I and J on map) – 5 sp/night 
. Bed in common room (rooms A, D and G) – 2 sp/night 
. Fine bedroom for 2 (room F) – 1 gp/night 
Trivia: Dalak was nearly killed twice during the 1372 campaign to liberate Dagger Falls, starting with a run-in with a terrible lion in Anauroch (who's pelt now resides at Charnel Priory). His brother, Balak, was a slave who had been rescued, but had also been nearly killed from deprivation and later violence. The two opened the establishment together, but Balak died in 1438 of natural causes. Balak then gave over control of the tavern and inn to his employees and friends, the Stonebridge's, who have run it ever since. Balak is a recluse who spends most of his time in the basement brewery doing what he loves most; making beer. He is one of the oldest inhabitants of the town, and one of only a few that remembers first hand events from the 13th century onward. 
The Myth Drannor Embassy 
"The loneliest place in Dagger Falls." That is what the friendliest of the locals call the Embassy. Others call it a waste of space, or a blatant offence to the people of the Dale. This is because there are very few elves left in this part of the Dalelands, as they seem preoccupied with some trouble in their own land, not terribly far away. Still others call the Embassy "The Tomb", as it was the site of the grisliest battle in the history of Dagger Falls. In Eleint, 1372 DR, The Eastern Storm, accompanied by William Cormaeril and his hearth guard assaulted what was then "Dark Sun Temple", a large fortified temple dedicated to Cyric. Inside was a small army of undead, and a protracted battle lasted for many hours, as reinforcements were called in to help clear the temple out. 
For many years afterward, the building lay empty. Even though it had been thoroughly cleaned out and deconsecrated by many powerful priests. It wasn't until the late 1390's, when Faerun was just over the most tumultuous years of the Spell Plague, that the elves returned. The House Miratar, who often supported the Whitegates in the mountains and the growing plains of Netheril, purchased the building, and hired many local craftsmen to put it back into a serviceable condition. For nearly a decade, there were usually a group of elves at the Embassy, and they worked closely with the local government, helping with local development and defensive measures. However, by 1415, the elves all left, and for the most part haven't returned. What is happening in Myth Drannor has them all occupied most of the time. The windows of this now-fine building are usually dark, and almost no one resides there. The Redjacks are under contract to provide two guards there at all times, and they have a local custodian, Berriadock Burgundy (a middle-aged halfling male) who keeps the place tidy. 
The building itself is a fortified 3-story affair, integrated into the thick walls of the southern ramparts. Indeed, the second floor has a rampart encircling its perimeter around which guards can walk. There are many locked doors into the Embassy on this level, but few dare try the handles. 
Trivia (Known by Solicitor Jeska): The elves of Myth Drannor are fighting a two-sided battle for their home. They are battling devils that are deep beneath the surface of their ancient settlement, as well as Prince Brennus Tanthul, one of the rulers of Netheril. Prince Brennus is obsessed with gaining entry to Myth Drannor, likely to access the archives there and study the now dead mythals. His agents provide a constant mid-intensity conflict in the area around the elven city. 
They have sent an 'Observer', Jeska, to reside in the Dale and to assist in the reclamation of Thistle Ridge, which they have some interest in. Jeska answers to Elowen Miratar, one of the leaders of that noble House of Myth Drannor. 
There is a store of emergency supplies in the old catacombs of the Embassy.
