SOURCE INFORMATION
Source File: Red Herrings - Campaign Summary [unreviewed].pdf (from To Process folder)
Original Title: Microsoft Word - summary edit.doc
Author: Les Blackwell (IT DYMAXIUM workstation)
Created: 6 April 2002
Content Type: Campaign narrative summary - Company of the Red Herring, Waterdeep 1368-1372 DR
Campaign: Daggerdale (precursor campaign - Red Herrings / Waterdeep Nights)
Pages: 58
Extraction Date: 2026-04-06
Note: This is a comprehensive DM-authored campaign summary covering the Warders of Waterdeep (1368), the formation of the Company of the Red Herring (Greengrass 1371), and all subsequent events through the Daggerdale Expedition. Contains the full Jalthor Murlyn narrative. Marked [unreviewed] in filename. Partial overlaps exist with: DDC - 1371 - 2 Remarks on the Company of the Red Herring.txt (Murlyn section), 1372_DR_-_Adventures_of_the_Company_of_the_Red_Herring_Waterdeep.txt (post-Murlyn narrative), and Chronicle of the Red Herring.txt (wiki-formatted version). This file is the most complete single-document account.

---

Summer, 1368
The Warders of Waterdeep encounter the Company Dalael this summer. Both parties were searching for
something called the Island of Three Curses, somewhere southwest of Neverwinter in the Sea of Swords.
Company Dalael was looking for something called Kulgen Sussun on this island, while the Warders were looking
for a place called Blethmark. It turned out that Blethmark was one of many layers of building upon the ancient
Kulgen Sussun (Drow for fortress of light), which was built by Drow millennia ago.
During this race to find this location, the Warders and Dalael crossed paths many times, both in the City of Splendors
during the research phase, and on the seas and in the archipelago during the exploration phase.
The Dalael were known at that time to have infiltrated many noble houses of the City, including the Anteos,
Dezlentyr, Eltorchul, Margaster, Umbrusk and Wavesilver families. The heads of the company, which are
the Dalael brothers, were married to and/or had children with women of the Anteos, Dezlentyr and Eltorchul
families. They also had some influence over the Durinbold family, through manipulation of Breton Durinbold’s
hatred for his brother, Talinvor, a member of the Warders.
The Warders were able to foil many Dalael operations, and managed to raid their stronghold in North Ward. In the
end, the Dalael left the city in defeat. The only Dalael that stayed in the City was Y’morth Dalael, also known as
Dally. This Drow was not a participating member of the company, and is known by the Watchful Order of
Magists and Protectors as a contributing member of that guild.
Surviving members of the Warders of Waterdeep include the following;
    •    Steele, an elf of questionable morals and jack of all trades
    •    Kennyth Thames, priest of Oghma, now Loremaster at the Font of Knowledge
    •    Rychel Voordan, urban stalker, now retired from adventuring
    •    Gable, mage, currently retired
    •    Edgar Grimbold, AKA Stuart Bold, swashbuckler and monk, currently retired
After a debacle with the Durinbold family involving the deaths of two Durinbolds and an assault upon the family villa,
the Warders ended their association with that company name. The surviving men of this company were harassed by
Magistrate Richter many times, and in the end were only saved from prosecution by this man by the paladin
Harkas Kormalis.
Summer, 1371, Waterdeep
The origins of the Company of the Red Herring (CRH) are best told by Jalthor Murlyn in the following
document (thanks to Robertson for this fine piece of historical writing).

Remarks on the Company of the Red Herring, by Jalthor Murlyn, Captain of the
Night Watch, Dockward
“The only knowledge I have of the Company of the Red Herring concerns the months between Greengrass and
Harvestide of 1371. They did the City a couple of favours, but on the whole we’d have been better off without them.
“From what I understand, the company centred on a Dockward orphan that had more than a few run-ins with the
Watch in my patrol days. Garth Shanks was always something of a character, as I recall, getting up to mischief with
Szarah Mudge’s boy, Tomas, when he wasn’t cutting purses in the markets. He was always one to put on a show
whenever anyone the authorities had any questions. Eventually, he cleaned himself up enough to land a job at a
respectable, if not strictly legitimate, shop as an errand boy. Do you know Serpentil’s Books and Folios? Janaxil
Serpentil sells maps and books, usually authentic, to a fairly large customer base, but most of his business is on the
shady side, dealing intelligence and worse to the usual suspects. From what I understand, Serpentil was dealing fairly
often in those days with Quevin Dalael, in his surface guise, of course.
“I imagine they were circumspect enough that Shanks never got beyond the usual suspicions that anyone of at least
moderate intelligence would have dealing with Serpentil. One of Shanks’ first jobs for Serpentil was connected to this
Dalael business – a ‘delivery’ to Castleward. The package turned out to be an incendiary device of some kind, and I
hear the hit really got under the skin of one of the Zhent traders who were active in the city at that time. That was
pretty much it for Garth’s association with Serpentil.
“The company came together following that business. Ildar Orsabbas was a fop who owned a Seaward trade outlet
called Orsabbas’ Fine Imports. The idiot fancied himself a bit of a crime boss, calling himself the “Duke of Darkness”
or something of the like. We were on to his operation, but he more often than not pointed us in the direction of more
useful quarry. At any rate, he had a pet elf named Ellyth, an ambitious piece, if misguided in her choice of mentors.
Her uncle was a good man, for an elf, a bladesinger named Gilthanas, but I hear he came to a bad end not too long
after that.
“I understand that she was there on Greengrass eve, when Orsabbas met the rogue Teskul for dinner. Orsabbas was
selling Teskul some information on a shipment of swords enchanted by a Banite cult in Luskan. The shipment was
moving out of the Helmfast warehouse in Dockward Greengrass night – the swords, in two crates packed with sugar
cane, were going to move under the cover of the celebration. Teskul said he couldn’t do much with the information,
but Ellyth was sharp enough to pick up on their conversation. Ellyth had heard a bit about the Helmfasts from one of
her … colleagues – a bit named Ezrelda, and like the rookie she was, she came right out and offered to put together
some people for the job. That’s really where it all started. Ellyth got in touch with her uncle and her crazy cousin
Esperel, Esperel got a hold of Garth, and Garth brought in Tomas.
“What Orsabbas didn’t know, and Ellyth didn’t find out until too late, was that it was Teskul’s boss that had
arranged the shipment. They say Beshaba is just Tymora on a bad day.
“Teskul’s boss had arranged the shipment with Chuldan Helmfast, who managed the warehouse for his family.
Helmfast’s is usually pretty well looked after, good light, guards on the roof, etc. Won’t keep out the mages, but it’s
good enough to stop hoods like Garth and Esperel. The logs indicate that the cargo was to be loaded on to a privately-
owned cog called The Misty.
“Tomas told me all this, or most of it, at least, shortly before his own death some months later. The five of them
decided to ambush the shipment and make a switch during the commotion of the festival. It wasn’t hard for a couple
of Dockward lads to pull together a wagon and team, and I’m not surprised they were able to make the switch
without too much trouble. At least, no immediate trouble. This is all a prelude, remember, to the real show.
“Once they got back to Garth’s house, that’s when the shit hit the fan. They were so excited about the heist, that
there wasn’t much more than a token attempt to keep their guard up. A man on the roof took out Esperel pretty
quick, and the rest of them didn’t have much to say to their door being beat down by four thugs. Right behind them
were Teskul and his boss, a Zhent named Thagdul who ran the Drurginz Trading Company. Drurginz was a semi-
legit trading company with connections to the Moonsea region, but we know that they probably ran contraband through
                                                                 Skullport more often than not. Garth recognized him
                                                                 as someone who wasn’t too pleased at Serpentil’s stunt
                                                                 with the fire, and had a pretty good idea where this
                                                                 was going. It turned out that he’d had Teskul build
                                                                 up about as much of a dossier on this bunch as you
                                                                 could get.


                                                                “If you knew this bunch, you’d have expected a
                                                                hopeless fight to break out. But Ellyth saw something
                                                                in the doorway that pretty much took the fight out of
                                                                them that day.
                                                                “Thagdul knew he had them over a barrel. It didn’t
                                                                take much convincing to get Ellyth and Garth to
                                                                agree to run a few ‘errands’ for Drurginz, doing some
                                                                corporate sabotage on another Zhent organization in
                                                                the city, Company Ersgul. Tomas and Esperel
                                                                followed suit, but Gilthanas knew the scene and
                                                                wouldn’t have any of it. No one ever proved that
                                                                Gilthanas’ death had anything to do with the Zhents,
                                                                but I’m a druid if they had nothing to do with it.
Indeed, Gilthanas disappeared about then, and a new figure took his place along side the adventurers. This was Jafar.
Jafar seemed to know Thagdul from some business dealings in Calimshan, where he claimed to be from.

Repaying Debts
It was not long before Thagdul was calling on the hapless adventurers to repay their debt to him. He sent them on a
mission to burn down the very same building that the Dalael had been using as an HQ years before. Here, they found
that there were still some Drow living there, but the place looked nearly abandoned. On the top floor, they
encountered the beholder-kin Vuldan, who did not seem the least bit worried about the intruders or their threats of
fire.
On the way out of the building, they managed to steal some loot, including some journals written the in the drow
tongue, as well as this note;
Father Dalael, Quevin and Isilith;


                      Business on the surface is recovering. We are currently allied with a Zhent
                      trading company called Company Ersgul (Coat of Arms inset); the Company is
                      one of Fzoul’s major arms in the west, and falls directly under the control of one of
                      his most (or perhaps least) trusted, and powerful allies: Xulla (mark inset,
                      though I doubt you would forget it), whom you know.


The treachery of the Zhents is as abundant as we have heard. Xulla gives us bits
of information, and frequently has us raiding holdings, which we took to belong to
Ersgul.

                    Company Ersgul, as we have recently learned, is pitted against another, called
                    Company Drurginz. I take this to be an arm of Manshoon, but I am uncertain. I
                    have also inset their shield. I am suspicious that they may have connections to one
                    known as Zantiid. Only by the grace of Vhaeraun was I able to learn Zantiid’s
                    mark, and live to tell of it (but that is quite another
                    story). Please send back any word of Zantiid’s
                    politics, if you’ve any knowledge of them.

The family is good. Corrina is pregnant, and Arlos has become trusting of
us again. Having just returned from a long vacation in Cormyr. I have
amassed a great amount of information about this society, and I ma sending
it to you. Some tomes are aged (for human work) and will require our sages to interpret. The language of
the human race is such a malleable thing.

I must go now; this message will (I hope) be finding it’s way to you in the hands of a new (I am as
equally surprised as you) Vhaeraunite. He is worthy of our trust. Upon receipt of this message, please
consider sending more of our people. The climate is once again favourable, I assure you. Soon, our
numbers will be needed again.

Vhaeraun shall remember.
After running this mission, the adventurers really started down their chosen paths. They made contact with fences,
started infiltrating certain guilds and organizations, and began to gather information of just about everything they
could think of.
The adventurers took some of the swag from their last operation to Serpentil’s Books and Folios to see if they could sell
it off. At the shoppe, the adventurers find not only the proprietor, Janaxil Serpentil, but also two of his associates,
Yarkul and Quevin Dalael. They did not know who Yarkul was at that time, and Quevin was in his disguise as a
surface elf. Janaxil looked over the goods, and insisted that they bring all of it to him to sell (the journals and other
books were still at Garth’s house).
Returning with all the books and such, Ellyth and Garth were stopped on the street by Magistrate Thuman, a
group of watch, and Quevin. The cargo was identified as belonging to Quevin, and the two adventurers would have
been arrested if not for the quick wits of Ellyth, who implicated a fence that they had met the day before.
Soon after this encounter, the adventurers found that they had no safe-haven. Almost all of their homes were broken
into, including Tomas’ mothers place, which was looted thoroughly.
Tomas was attacked on the street and would have been killed or abducted, if not for the intervention of a figure name
Egan. Egan is a wererat (as the adventurers would learn later) who sits on the Council of Four [see the appendix on
the wererats of Waterdeep].
Around this time, the adventurers form the Company of the Red Herring, and use Garth’s house as a headquarters.
The next operation that the CRH runs is in the sewers of the City. Thagdul gave the party information about an
entrance into Undermountain that a group of Ersgul slavers would be using to run their contraband/victims into
the markets below. The CRH stopped the slavers and rescued four little girls.
After this, the CRH continued to make connections to the black market and other secret orders of the City. Jafar
even became a member of the Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors (WOMP). They located the head office for Ersgul
and found out more about this organization through their own efforts, and from Thagdul.
Another attack on the CRH was initiated by wererats, and once again Egan came to the rescue. Realizing that the
company would have much trouble from the wererats of the City, Garth tracked down renowned exterminator of the
creatures, Morgan Lathkule. Morgan offers advice only at first.
A boon of sorts came in the form of a young noble named Mourn Raventree, known by his comrades as Raven.
This man was looking for some help in rescuing his little sister, who he suspected may have been abducted for sale in
the markets below. Raven and Garth returned to Morgan, who was an uncle to Raven. Mourn outfitted them with
several weapons to fight lycanthropes, including his personal blade, of which much fate was weaved about.
Garth returned to the Dalael building again, and found Vuldan and his ‘master’ Y’morth Dalael. They appeared to be
moving out, and made no hostile actions towards the rogue.
Tomas arranged protection for his lonesome mother with Thagdul, who had men watching her flat around the clock
by that time. At this point, Thagdul let Tomas in on the fact that Yarkul is a Zhent, and that Ersgul is a front for Zhent
trade on the Sword Coast.
Soon after this, Jafar actually translated the note that they stole from the Dalael HQ (detailed above). The CRH is
somewhat mortified at the ‘truth’ about their employer, and the world into which they have been unwittingly
submerged.
The Heart of the Earth
The company’s fifth operation was one that changed the course of their lives, though they never realized it before
they were dead or gone. They were given info from Thagdul about a company called The Southern Star, which had
just returned from Chult. The Southern Star had been set up by Ersgul to meet with a fence that didn’t exist.
Rather, the wererats Bolkine and Lucien Addard would meet and ambush the two survivors of the ill-fated
expedition to Chult. Thagdul requested only that he CRH surrenders six vials of grey liquid from the swag which he
knew the Southern Star had brought from Chult.
The CRH observed the ambush, and tried to react in time to save the two Southern Star members, but huge rats and
wererats came out of every passage and hole in the sewer chamber, and the last of the Company of the Southern Star
were killed. The CRH fought off the rodent hoard and made good their escape with the magical pack that the
Southern Star victims were bearing. Thagdul later retrieved his bottles. After this, the CRH looked through the pack,
and found a small box with shavings from the Heart of the Earth, which are of immense value.

The Reprobates
After this operation, the CRH continued its network-building and investigations into the company Ersgul. Raven
found out from his uncle Morgan that Lucien and Bolkine work for an outfit called the Reprobates. Garth finds out
that these Reprobates do legwork for Ersgul.
Not long after this, the Reprobates ran an operation in which they stole some very valuable statuary from a Drurginz
interest. Thagdul was angered by this, and set the CRH out to kill Gul’Dan, the leader of the Reprobates.
The CRH had no difficulty tracking Gul’Dan down. The Reprobates all frequented a bar called the Bloody Fist, which
is renowned as one of the roughest bars in the City. Raven and Tomas went to the Fist and found one Sgt. Krag, a
half-ogre member of the Reprobates. Tomas had a series of bare-knuckle matches against the half-ogre, and won 1
out of 3. After this fighting, Gul’Dan approached Raven, and challenged him to a duel. The duel was set to happen in
one hour later.
The duel turned into a chaotic ambush, where the abilities of a drow named Rubicon turned the odds into the
Reprobates favor. The ambush turned into a skirmish, and both sides departed without any fatalities.
When the CRH returned to HQ, they found that the Heart of the Earth shavings have been stolen from them, despite
many security precautions, both magical and mundane. Jafar was supposed to be guarding HQ, but set off flying
under the evocation of his new alter self spell.
Jafar was shot down by poisoned darts whilst flying, and was saved by Egan. It is clear at this point that Egan is
watching the CRH.
Garth contacted Kennyth at the Font of Knowledge to discuss the drow, as Kennyth had had dealings with them in the
past. Kennyth gave Garth a stack of documents from various sources, including himself, on how to deal with drow, as
well as a few objects, such as light pellets and drow poison antidote.
In the regular course of the CRH’s sneaking and rogueing about, Raven and Esperel encountered elements of the
Reprobates in the sewers. Raven nearly killed Bolkine, but lost one eye to Gul’Dan, before the two sides departed
from this skirmish.
The CRH decided to take the initiative themselves for their sixth operation. They planned an ambush for the
Reprobates, and a chaotic melee ensued in an alleyway not far from the Bloody Fist. During the melee, one
Reprobate, a half-orc known as Stetkin was slain by Ellyth. Ellyth shot him with an arrow covered in a poison that
was procured by Jafar, who insisted that it was merely a powerful sedative. The CRH began to suspect that Jafar had
some unscrupulous tendencies at this point.
The next run-in with the Reprobates was on their terms. The necromancer, Lucien, animated the corpse of Aganon,
one of the two victims of the Southern Star ambush. Lucien used this corpse-messenger to lead Jafar and Tomas into a
trap. They managed to escape using Jafar’s magic.

Attack Upon Reprobate HQ
With the Reprobates causing so much trouble for the CRH, Thagdul decided that it was time to get rid of them for
good. A raid upon their HQ was organized, and a flawless plan (involving using a broken ships mast to knock on the
front door) was initiated. During the raid, only Lucien was found dwelling at home, along with a small army of
undead that he had animated, and several wererats. During the battle Lucien was killed and the CRH sacked the HQ.
Thagdul showed up to assist with the raid, and held off many wererats in the sewer-entrance to the HQ using his staff.
After the attack upon the Reprobate headquarters, the CRH continued its networking and research. Thagdul warned
the CRH that they would be ‘going spelunking’ in a tenday.

Dark Market
The 8th mission that the CRH ran was into Undermountain to an event called Dark Market. Once per year, in a
specific location on the upper-most level of Undermountain, the denizens of Skull Port and other high ranking
underworld types convene to trade whatever they wish. Thagdul found out that the missing Raventree children that
Raven was looking for were in the possession of a group of Iyactu Xvim cultists that had found their way to Dark
Market. Thagdul made a map using Wizard Eye and other divinations, and sent the CRH, along with the necromancer
Gregor, into Undermountain through the entrance he had revealed to them earlier in the summer (which also
involved slavers).
After a difficult and misguided journey through Undermountain, the CRH and Gregor arrived at Dark Market. They
managed to contain themselves and keep themselves from ending up in the slave pens long enough to seek out the
Xvimites. Relying heavily upon Gregor’s magic, the CRH managed to destroy the cultists, only to find that the
Raventree children weren’t there.
A mage in purple robes was chased out of the Xvimite lair by Esperel. Esperel managed to shoot many arrows into the
mage before Esperel was intercepted by a beholder that may have been Xulla. This beholder spared Esperel’s life in
return for a ‘favour’. And so it came to be that Esperel became the pawn of both sides of the Zhent conflict.
The Raventree children were already at the slave pens and ready for auctioning, as it turns out. The CRH had to
spend almost all the money it had to purchase them, but the mage with the purple robe tried to outbid the CRH for a
particular child named Adonai.
At length, the CRH made their way out of Undermountain after a successful mission. Thagdul rewarded all with
magical cloaks and other rewards.
The CRH was not involved in any more conflicts until shortly before Harvestide of that year.
Summer, 1371, Neverwinter
This is the tale of the Road Mage, Zaltim, and his efforts in the North to remove the Zhent influence in the area. The heroes
that became caught up in Zaltim’s struggle would go on to continue his work in Waterdeep, though he did not. Here is the story of
the Road Mage and his allies.
Our heroes from this chapter of the story were all brought together instantly during an attempt on the life of Zaltim
on the docks of Neverwinter. The Road Mage was attacked by a flock of darken beasts, and would have been killed if
not for the intervention of our heroes, who include the following;
     •    Beljuril, the gifted monk and servant of Azuth
     •    Wilk Shtubb, dwarf with an axe and a bad temper
     •    Hob (the Fox) Farwood, halfling cartographer of Corm Orp
     •    Rufus Larrigan, the ‘Touched Priest’ of Selune
     •    Alt Cor, forgettable dwarven priest
These heroic men (well, one boy, one halfling, 2 dwarves and one wereweasel) took up with Zaltim immediately,
pledging to help him with his labours, each for their own reasons.
The problems plaguing Neverwinter were of a Zhentish origin, and The Road Mage had been tasked by the Harpers
to put an end to their strong-arming of the trade routes in the North. He had been tasked to this labor for a couple
years before he enlisted the aid of our heroes. His need for aid had been made great by the recent death (2 weeks
before our Heroes intervened) of his partner and life-long friend Laurel Dawn, at the hands of the Uruk’Dun orcs.
The Uruk’Dun were a very scattered tribe for most of their history, but the Zhent mage Gilthzan managed to bring
them together, and also annexed smaller tribes of Orogs and other orcs under the umbrella of the Uruk’Dun
warlord.
Another weapon used by the Zhents where a pair of Deep Spawn, which resided in the ruins of Thurl’Dan. These
deep spawn were producing ettercaps and trolls that assisted in plaguing the High Road from Waterdeep to
Neverwinter.
At the head of the Zhent organization in Neverwinter was the mage Malkor, who was also known by the name
Githias. Githias was known as a shrewd businessman in Neverwinter. He managed to buy out Emuldan’s Carters
and Malthoon's High Road Shippers at a discount rate. Both of these companies were loosing tremendous
amounts of money, and face, as their cargoes could not get by the Zhent traps on the High Road.
Githias also owned two ships, the Dolphin Star and the Myrmidon, which were also inordinately successful in
navigating through the Luskan pirate ships that were plaguing the waters that year. Needless to say, Githias (Malkor)
was doing great business, while other trading companies and costers were finding it increasingly difficult.
Malkor employed the help of a mage named Atemnon (sigil below). Atemnon was a high-level messenger, of sorts.
This mage did much of the legwork for Malkor, and was the chief source of trouble for the heroes and Zaltim.
                                      Zaltim’s only other ally was a Harper named Ansul Bloodshoulders, who lived
                                     in a logging village called Thundertree. Zaltim and the heroes traveled to
                                     Thundertree shortly after meeting in Neverwinter to meet with Ansul and share
                                     news. Along the way they were plagued by more darkenbeasts.
                                     Arriving in Thundertree, Ansul is dismayed to learn of the death of Laurel Dawn,
                                     whom he had strong feelings for. Ansul informs Zaltim and the heroes that he is
                                     worried about the fate of his people in his village. They intercepted a note from an
                                     orc messenger that read as follows;
Malkor;

Atemnon managed to send a rider to our camp with word of Zaltim’s
meddling, and I am making the necessary arrangements.

The Spawn in Thurl’Dan are doing very well, though their brood do not grasp
the concept of looting. So be it. I keep two of my finest scouts watching the
place. They report that the ettercaps have done an excellent job feeding the
spawn, and their production is excellent.

Yesterday, we made an excellent strike against a foolhardy Seven Stars
caravan that thought itself capable of squeezing past our allies. I report that
their load is still being assessed, but we found 300 Lantanese trade bars, one
of which I am sending along for your assessment of its authenticity.

Yesterday’s count after the raid was 212 Uruk’Dun, 144 Dolgun, 24 Aruk’s
and 38 freebooters. We have 44 mounts at mid-excellent quality, 41 pack-
mounts and one Sembian purebred.

Of humorous note, two of the members of the Seven Stars turned out to be
Zhents with weak wills and loose tongues. Apparently, Yarkul will be most
upset about this Seven Stars load falling into our hands.

That is all for now.

Consider this, though: The need for all these orcs will have diminished
completely come winter. We should find the right market for these green oafs.

All goes well,

      Gilthzan
Ansul was most distressed to find this note. He did not like the numbers of orcs that he saw on the note. His scouts
(few as they were) had been meeting increasing numbers of orc scouts in the last couple of weeks. Further, he has a
visitation from a traveling hag that warned of the dangers of ‘Trollwomb’ in Thurl’Dan. These two problems,
combined with the death of Laurel Dawn were all the portent he needed to arrive at the conclusion that ‘hard days
are ahead’. The Road Mage and his companions began to harry the Uruk’Dun for some time, intercepting this letter;

         Gilthzan:
         The last of the Malthoon Company will be heading south in the next tenday. They
         will number more than twenty, so have the appropriate forces available.
         Please send a report about the process of our little pets in Thurl’Dan. I would like
         to see them causing more havoc for us, to take some attention from our orc “allies”.
         If our pets in Thurl’Dan require more coaxing, please send word to me. I have
         fashioned the appropriate scrolls.
         Re: the Harper:
         Atemnon tells me that the Harper Road Mage is on his way to your encampment
         with a handful of thugs. I don’t know what he has planned, but I will find out.
         Please take him alive. The others are hired muscle, and can be exterminated.
         Be warned that amongst them is a lycanthrope of an exotic breed. This one should
         be slain immediately!


                   – Malkor


At this point, Zaltim and the heroes had to make a decision about what foe they would next face. They could stay in
Thundertree and face the Uruk’Dun with Bloodshoulders, or they could strike ‘Trollwomb’ in Thurl’Dan. The
decision was not easy, and it was with much grudging by Beljuril, that the company set out to Thurl’Dan to
exterminate the monsters dwelling there.
The battle in Thurl’Dan was a protracted affair. Zaltim and the heroes faced a multitude of trolls and ettercaps, and
eventually destroyed the pair of vile deep spawn that was producing these monsters. This victory was not without
cost, however. As the heroes found themselves worn out and wounded, and surrounded by more enemies than they
could face, Zaltim extricated them to a nearby ruined tower through use of magical flight. Unknown to the heroes,
however, Zaltim had received a fatal poisoned bite from an ettercap that took his life soon after he brought the heroes
to safety. Beljuril and Rufus swore to the dying Road Mage that they would take up his labours and destroy the
Zhents, and never did the pair deviate from this pledge.
More tragedy was to be found, however, when the heroes returned from cleansing Thurl’Dan and burying their new
friend. As they neared Thundertree, a great column of smoke was espied, and soon the heroes found themselves in
the pyre that was Thundertree. Ansul they found slain, his head on a pike. All the villagers had been killed and the
entire place put to the torch. Our heroes paused to bury the dead in what fashion time allowed. Doubt was upon
them, as they questioned themselves and their decisions. But a pledge they made, and our heroes cast aside doubt and
grief for a brief time to take to the road once again.
Heading back to Neverwinter from Thundertree, our heroes met with two of the mages involved in this conflict.
They were ambushed by Atemnon and Gilthzan on the road, along with a small band of thugs. During the battle the
heroes managed to kill Gilthzan and the host of thugs, but Atemnon made good his escape on horseback. Upon the
dead Gilthzan, the heroes found a scroll tube which contained Ansul’s Harper Pin, and this note;


         Belduran;
         I fear my last letter must have gotten lost. I was expecting your word or presence yesterday.
         Conflict with the angry Uruk’Dun is inevitable at this point. There has been skirmishing between
         our scouts and theirs already. The Zhent enchanter Gilthzan has mastered enough of his tricks to
         mobilize the Uruk’Dun for one last campaign. He has been spotted amongst them, which worries
         us. Orcs aren’t too dangerous when left to quibble amongst themselves, but with a leader…
         This brings me to my most important point: at all costs, we must cut the head from the snake. The
         company Ersgul, lead by the Zhent Yarkul, is to blame for this mess, and the angry vengeance
         they extract now, would best be averted by destroying Yarkul and Ersgul in Waterdeep.
         The Company has many minions in Neverwinter, but in the finest tradition of destroying the Zhent
         influence in the north, it is better to eat this snake head first; the tail slides down smoothly
         afterward. Our friend Zaltim has been working on this assignment for some time. I am displeased
         to inform you that our long-time comrade, Laurel Dawn, has perished at the hands of Ersgul.
         Zaltim continues without her, with a band of adventurers.
         Of special note, amongst this band, is the Selûnite Rufus, one of Selûne’s Chosen. This lycanthrope
         has a true heart, and has two nominations for invitation into the order.
         If we never meet again, please find Zaltim and assist him in destroying Company Ersgul in
         Waterdeep. You should seek out our colleague Thagdul, who operates a company called Drurginz
         in the Dockward of the City. This comrade and one-time partner of mine has been warring with
         the Zhents in a most clever guise, for quite some time. You and Zaltim should take up the task of
         finding Thagdul, and destroying Ersgul.
         All of this, of course, after you bail us out of the Uruk’Dun cooking-pot.
         With Godspeed, Belduran
         AB
The heroes returned to Neverwinter for a short time after intercepting this note. They attempted to locate
Malkor. It was at this time that our heroes met Jafar, who was in Neverwinter looking for a child-prodigy
wild-mage named Kionin. This boy has been captured by slavers, and Jafar enlists the aid of the heroes to free
him. A man named Shoondall had Kionin locked up in a cellar in a building beside the harbor. Jafar and the
heroes gained entry to the place, killed a host of thugs, took down Shoondall, and rescued Kionin. Shoondall
informs the heroes that Malkor left for Waterdeep just days ago. Jafar ruthlessly and mercilessly kills the slaver
Shoondall, and the Heroes and Jafar make for Waterdeep.
Harvestide, 1371
This portion of the tale actually begins on 25 Elient, 1371 DR, just five days before Harvestide begins. It begins when
the leader of the Reprobates, Gul’dan, comes to the CRH HQ. Dressed in his finest clothes, he invites the CRH to
lunch with Yarkul at Guanar’s Tavern. Raven, Jafar, Thomas and Garth go to meet with the Zhent mage. There,
Yarkul offers them a chance to change sides. All refuse bluntly, and Yarkul warns that “Harvestide will be wartide”.
Later that day, the CRH along with Jafar and the Neverwinter crew meet with Thagdul, who is happy to hear about
the CRH turning down the offer. He explains at this point that Yarkul is worried about the Anteos Family. Yarkul
knows that Dulbrawan Anteos, the patriarch of the family, hates him. This is because Dulbrawan’s wife, Ranya,
has a child with Quevin Dalael, and Quevin has pledged the services of Company Dalael to Ersgul. The younger
brother of Dulbrawan, Korrass, has pledged to help Ersgul and the drow, however, and so the family is split. The
Anteos family is old and powerful, and thus this battleground is quite important to both sides.
Thagdul also explains that he is actually a Harper in the guise of a Zhent named Thagdul that he killed in Zhentil Keep
years ago. Not all the CRH or the Neverwinter crew are convinced of the truth of this.

The Heart of the Earth and the Hunnabars.
Members of the CRH began to research the Heart of the Earth at this time, thinking it was about time they got it
back. They learn that Haskar Hunnabar has tried to sell portions of it to Alec Lenter. Further, Haskar has been
hiding ever since, as he has received death threats of some sort. Haskar has hired the services of the Silmerhelve
Family. He has dozens of their well trained mercenaries patrolling their villa. Further, a mage named Kalindos has
also been hired to protect Haskar.
Late in the day of the 25th, Raven and Thomas go to Reprobate HQ and speak to Sgt. Krag. They warn him that if any
Reprobates are seen on the streets or found running missions against Drurginz, that they will kill them. At this point,
Rubicon appears from the shadows and makes his famous threat against Thomas that he ‘has five days to live’.
On the way, Raven and Thomas split up, and it is at this point that Raven is attacked by Dragon, the daughter of
Yarkul. Raven manages to bust her nose with a well-aimed fist, but he is quickly brought down by drow poisons and
captured.
On the 26th, on the night of the full moon, elements of the CRH, the Neverwinter crew as well as the
swashbuckler/monk Stuart, raid the Hunnabar villa. With a good plan, well executed, the adventurers gain entry to
the villa, and find the Hunnabars involved in some strange ceremony (which is later revealed as a ceremony to the
new god Muir’Quaggoth). The Hunnabars are revealed as werewolves. A bloody battle ensues, but when Wilk kills
one of the Hunnabar werewolves, the patriarch Haskar sues for peace. The adventurers withdraw. Meanwhile, Jafar
and Rychel have been sneaking around on the upper levels of the villa and find not only the box that contained the
Heart of the Earth, but also a beholder staff! This staff is 6’ and has 6 stalks upon it.
The box that had contained the Heart of the Earth shavings is found to be empty of them at this point. Instead, a
locket is found inside, with this inscription upon it;

                                       This symbol of my eternal love,
                                               Dear Joldara,
                                               Istolil Dalael
It was unknown at the time, how this box got to be here, or where the Heart of the Earth shavings had gotten too.
However, there was a lining in the box that was new, and the material was exotic, and this would prove to be a lead
that would be followed up later.
The next day, Rufus goes to the Hunnabar villa to speak with Haskar. Haskar indicates that he would like the staff
back, and Rufus gives him a note that was penned by Rychel. The note, unread by Rufus, made Haskar furious, and
he attacked Rufus. Rufus managed to escape by changing into his rodent form and abandoning the armour that he had
gotten from the Road Mage.

The Vortex and the Mysterious Istolil Dalael
Later in the Day, a few of the adventurers went about the city seeking out the exotic material that the box had been
lined with. Magical divinations provided by Beljuril indicated that there was a bolt of the material in an area of the
Sewers. Rychel goes down to investigate, and there he finds a safe house that is guarded by a drow. The drow claims
to be Istolil Dalael. This drow didn’t seem to know much about the box, but did offer to help Rychel by telling him
where Raven was being kept.
The adventurers then went to the warehouse that Istolil had indicated, and there they fell into a trap. The warehouse
was full of panes of glass that were covered in drow poison. A mage from some hidden location shatters all the glass
magically, and causes a whirlwind of shards of poisoned glass to engulf the adventurers. Tomas and Rufus are cut
down pretty quick, especially once some drow engage them, but Rychel manages to save the two.
After this raid, Magistrate Thuman shows up, with Watch Wizard Sabrel Lightstar and Captain of the Watch
Griswold Horn, and the adventurers are arrested. Rufus is taken to a separate cell where he is interrogated and
tortured by Sabrel, who is trying to find his ‘true name’. Rychel has Harkas Kormallis show up to bail them out, but
at the same time, Magistrate Vader shows up to do the same. Kormallis is unimpressed by the company that the CRH
and the Neverwinter crew are keeping (Vader), and expresses this to Rychel. Kormallis seems to know something
about Vader that he does not like. Vader does not seem to favour Kormallis, either.

Battle at the Dripping Dagger
The next day, a note is found stuck to the door of the CRH HQ;




                                Gentleman and Lady,
                             Just a reminder that you have until the end of the
                             day to notify me of your decision to join my
                             company. Please notify my man in the Dripping
                             Dagger of your intent. He will have instructions for
                             you.
And this is how one of the messiest battles in Waterdeep started. Of course, the adventurers had no intention of
showing up there to switch sides. Thagdul had been good to them so far, even if they did not quite trust him.
However, they did intend to show up.
As it turns out, Yarkul did not trust the adventurers, and he had the place filled with his men. Not only where there
numerous wererats and Zhents and the place, but Quevin himself was there with two other drow and a pair of
Ghaunadan was also there. On top of that, Yarkul himself was upstairs.
When the inevitable fight broke out, things got really messy. The dwarven heroes of Neverwinter, Wilk Shtubb and
Alt Cor were slain. Rychel went toe-to-toe with Quevin for quite some time, before Quevin decided to make his
escape. It was at that time that Rychel turned his attention upon the recently discovered invisible Yarkul. Yarkul
stood not a chance against Rychel, and was quickly dispatched. Rychel risked nothing; he put Yarkul over his
shoulder, grabbed the staff and left before anyone could say a word.
In the end, the Dripping Dagger was destroyed. A combination of fires, acid and physical violence turned the place
into a nightmare hazard, and the place was closed.
Rychel took Yarkul to a safe place and interrogated him at this point. Rychel manages to learn a good deal from the
mage about the Company Ersgul. Rychel cuts off Yarkul’s thumbs to make sure he can’t cast spells anymore (a
measure that proved to be inadequate). The CRH returns a little while later to their HQ to find that the Hunnabar
staff has been stolen, despite the many layers of magical and mundane security that Beljuril had ensconced it in. The
CRH is absolutely livid at this point. Soon after, Rychel brings Yarkul to HQ, and further interrogation takes place. A
list of Ersgul resources and contacts in made, and it seems that they may be beaten. As well, it is learned that Teskul
has a romantic involvement with Yarkul’s daughter, Dragon.
Later in the day, a message arrives from a man named Elbing Hightimber, a priest of Cyric who is living at the
Wavesilver Villa. Hightimber agrees to trade Raven for Yarkul, and all the adventurers agree that it would be prudent
to do so at this point. Raven is returned, and Yarkul is handed over to HIghtimber. Raven is bruised and covered in
lacerations, and does not seem like himself at first. He seems drugged.
Later that night, Raven seems to be recovering, and with the magical help of Beljuril, he manages to remember some
of what happened. He remembers being in a pit full of slime and broken glass and other broken metal items. He was
wearing only a loin cloth, and killed many people in the pit. Many eyes of different colours watched the gladiatorial
carnage unfold, and one of the spectators in particular was a man built of deep darkness and wreathed in shadow and
fear. This man, it would turn out, is Baron Drake, a Cambion and champion of Iyactu Xvim.

Beljuril’s Vision
As Beljuril slept that night, he had a portentous dream, a boon from Azuth. It went as follows;
         Your night’s sleep brings a fever-dream, clearly a message from Azuth.
         You find yourself sitting in a kneeling position on the floor of the monastery, as a child of four years of age.
         Standing behind you is a wise-looking old man who has more of a ‘presence’ than actual countenance.
         “Young Beljuril, do not forget what you have learned,” says the deep, calming voice. You find yourself at this
         point playing with a puzzle-box that you owned as a youth. Again, the voice speaks to you. “Do not forget
         what you have learned. The world is full of good and evil that frequently, unknowingly, walks hand in hand.
         “And there are those that knowingly march abreast to a common goal. Your mixed company is a convergence
         of fate, and a strong tool for your work. But here are the others.
         “You must know that your enemies are much like you and your companions. Your weaknesses are theirs.
         “You must remember what you have learned. Remember the names of your enemies. Know that the godson
         Iyachtu Xvim opposes you; that he is supporting the rise of the ancient Slime Lord, and that the Masked
         Drow smiles at his placement in these ranks. You do not know who sets the pace, but you will learn.”
You continue to play with the box. The clever wooden item was a gift to you from a Gondsman who stayed
at the monastery for a while. He said that there was a great treasure in the centre of the thing, but that
you would have to figure out your own way to it.
You fiddle with the box, shaking it. You can hear other objects inside, sliding about. After a series of tests,
you determine that there are four more boxes, each smaller, inside this one. And inside the smallest is
something that sounds like a good-sized gem.
After fiddling with the army of latches, bolts, catches and locking mechanisms on the outer box, it finally
falls away into six separate pieces, which in a dreamlike fashion vanish. There is clapping all around, and
from the shadows of the dream room, you see the faces of your dead friends. Wilk, Brother Cor, and Zaltim.
They are making congratulatory gestures towards you, and you feel proud.
But then you notice the faces of Thagdul, Jafar, Rychel, Esperel, Garth and Tomas leering at you. “Come
on, Boy,” says Jafar. “Open the next box. Let’s have us a see.”
You struggle with the next box, but cannot figure out how to open, and you are becoming frustrated. Finally,
Raven throws a knife at the box, knocking it from your hands.
You are scared, and get up to run, but find yourself helplessly contained by this circle of strangers. “Just a
little more, Boy,” says Thagdul.
This seems to calm you, and you kneel down to play with the box again, and then, there is only you and the
box. Fiddling with it at length, you notice a notch where the ranger’s knife was striking. As you peer into
this hole, the dream transitions.
You have a view of the bow of a great ship, passing you in the night. The light from the North Star is
bright behind this, and makes the waves brilliant silver.
Down and down you plunge. It is dark, and you hear voices. A very inhuman, scratchy, guttural bass voice
says, “I am pleased. The New Darkness shall play a greater role. You, good Baron, will inaugurate this new
day.”
A second voice, almost orcish in quality, but intelligent, replies “Humbly. And with great satisfaction.”
Descending deeper and deeper in the dream ocean, you see a small half-elven woman coming towards you.
Behind her, it looks like a black dragon is flying at her. But as she gets closer, the dragon seems more like
a phantasm, and it follows her movements. She comes up to your face, the dragon right behind her. A pair
of black, scaly hands comes out of the darkness and places a black crown with two green gems upon her
head.
They then place a sceptre in her ands – atop the sceptre is a beholder, a small, living beholder. As you stare
at it, you notice it is actually life-sized, and then there is only you, and this green-eyed beholder staring at
you.
You descend deeper, and finally your feet touch bottom, and you are a lone in a dark, wet chamber. The
smell of the place is awful. You can hear screams from one opening, and the sounds of battle. Rushing down
a strange corridor with a tiny balcony that runs halfway up the wall, you head towards the sounds. The
ground is wet, and covered in horrible slimes. You finally reach a wall, which you stumble through somehow.
There, you behold a terrible sight that is too much to take in all at once.
In a large room, men surround a group of young, naked boys who are fighting each other, with such weapons
as broken bottles, old rusty saws, hammers, and sharp bones. Several little bloody corpses litter the floor, and
there are men’s boots grinding them to paste.
         You are paralyzed with fear, and notice you are still four years old, but also that you are naked. The circle
         of men opens up, and as quick as you try to escape, you find yourself inside the circle. A lone, bloody boy of
         perhaps six years stands opposite you, clutching a rusty saw blade. He comes screaming towards you. You
         manage to land a blow directly on his chin, knocking him clean out. But the boy’s momentum carries his
         head into your face, knocking out two of your teeth. The metallic taste of blood fills your mouth.
         At this point, all the men start clapping. A man in huge armour comes and offers you a drink from a large
         goblet. You just stand there, taking it all in. Men in the circle include a drow wearing a mask, and a man
         made of slime in robes of copper violet, amber, russet, and lavender. Then, there is the scary man.
         A man of pure blackness with all the likeness of a demon stands behind the man in the black armour and
         the cup. He has his black hand on the armoured man’s huge shoulder, and his horrible smile makes you
         startle awake.
         You are drenched in sweat, and thirstier than you have ever been before. You notice you are actually covered
         in blood, and panic. You think you hear something in the corner of the room and notice the shadowy figure
         of a six-foot diameter sphere approaching you from the corner. Its green glowing eye burns brightly, and
         freezes you to the bone. You slowly, numbly swivel in bed, about to step off. Stepping out of bed, there is a
         horrible crack, and pain shoots up your leg. The room goes white as the pain overwhelms you.
         When your sight returns, you are a boy again, sobbing in the comforting arms of the wise man. You look
         down and se that the outer layer of the box has collapsed on your foot like a clever mousetrap. The man, who
         can’t get the box off, says to you in a solemn voice.
         “Prepare thyself, for all of your dreams have been construed, and they all end in traps.”
         With this, you wake up, in no pain at all. It is still dark out, and you realize almost no time has passed.
         You are completely rested, and completely healed.
While most were sleeping that night, Jafar takes the staff of Yarkul (6.5’, 7 stalks) and locks it up in safekeeping at the
Tower of Order.
The next day (the 30th, the day before Harvestide), Esperel gathers information about the Wavesilver Family. As it
turns out, they began to loose their fortunes years ago when they began trading with the Company Dalael. Ruin found
the family even more completely in recent months, as most of the Family holdings were purchased by elements of
Company Dalael and Company Ersgul. At length, the Family lost almost everything. The shamed patriarch of the
Family, Bleskos, retired to the one failing vessel he had left in the harbour, the Silver Spear, and left the rest of the
Family to whatever fate would find it.
It is learned that almost all the remaining family was living in the guesthouse at that point, and elements of Company
Ersgul had taken up residence there. The only Wavesilver left in the house was supposed to be the consort to Bleskos,
April. Esperel further found out that the villa was built on an ancient site, and that a powerful Mythal was in place
there. As well, the compound is well guarded by watchspiders, which live in the trees.
Later in the day, the CRH and remaining members of the Neverwinter crew (NC) met with Thagdul in the Thirsty
Throat Tavern, where a large Drurginz staff party appears to be held. They are celebrating the ruin of Yarkul, and
toast the CRH, NC and Rychel in particular. Rychel leaves, as he still does not trust Thagdul one bit. Thagdul
rewards the CRH and NC members for their service. All are given cloaks and some money for their service.
The day between Elient and Marpenoth is known as Harvestide. On this day, great feasts are held throughout the
Realms, but in no other place are the festivities as lush and debaucherous as in the City of Splendours. The Harvestide
Festival lasts until the 10th day of Marpenoth in the City.
However, on the day of Harvestide 1371, a daring and bloody heist mars the festivities of the day. The merchant
house Phaulkon assembled its last caravan for the season. It was to depart for Cormyr the next day, but it was
attacked in the court of the White Bull. The New Knights of the Sword Coast, who had been hired to guard it, were
all killed, as were all the usual caravan guards and the caravan master. A dozen citizens were killed by various fire-
spells that were used in the heist. The entire caravan disappeared around a corner and into the sewers in a matter of
minutes. The guard didn’t seem to get there on time…
This heist ruined Phaulkon house, and the old master of the house, Phaulkon himself, hung himself. His villa,
Phaulkonmere, would later be purchased by the CRH as a new base of operations.

The Wavesilver Villa
The first mission that the CRH and the NC decide to do is to raid the Wavesilver Villa. It is known that the cult of
Iyactu Xvim is operating out of the lower levels of this place, and that many of the higher-ranking members of Ersgul
that are left reside here. A protracted, chaotic battle ensues. On the surface, the fighting isn’t too fierce, but it is
discovered that most of the Wavesilver Family members are dead in the guest house, and not a soul can be found
otherwise.
Below, in the basement levels, the stolen Phaulkon Cargo is found. It has been stowed away only recently. A very
small portion of it is stolen by the CRH and NC members. The fight continues deeper and deeper into the ground,
however. The adventurers find an old sewer system deep beneath the basement levels that has been cut off from the
City’s sewer grid. Following one channel, they hear voices up ahead. Despite have had a dream to warn him of such
things, Tomas charges ahead through an illusionary wall, and falls right into the same pit that Raven had been
contained to previously. The adventurers charge in to help the brave Tomas, and find a veritable Host of the Damned.
In the chamber beyond the illusory wall, Elbing Hightimber is conducting some sort of ceremony. The last of the
Wavesilver family is dead and dying in the pit. The half-demon Baron Drake is there, as are a number of Drow
including Rubicon and Quevin. Dragon is also present, as are some Ghaunadan.
Immediately, Tomas is held by Hightimber, and Rubicon jumps down to cut his throat, thus making good his threat to
the wayward Dockward boy. A chaotic battle ensues in which several drow, priests of Xvim and Rubicon himself are
slain. At the peak of the bloodshed, the Baneson Xvim is manifested as a huge green snake that begins to consume the
souls of the fallen, including Tomas. At this point, all agree that it is time to bug out, including Quevin, who helps to
carry out Dragon. It seems that Quevin had changed his mind about his allies at that point.
The next day (1 Marpenoth) Thagdul sends his man Gotleib Erlgund to help the CRH and the NC to liquidate some
of the swag they took out of the Wavesilver basement. After Erlgund leaves, Esperel, Tomas and Rychel follow him,
only to find that Teskul is following him too. The three manage to catch him, but he only explains that he is watching
Erlgund to protect him, and the CRH’s interests. They let him go, but all are now suspicious of Teskul. Teskul does
warn that Ersgul is going to collect itself to make one last attack against the CRH and Drurginz.
Later in the day, Rufus and Esperel encounter Dragon on the streets. She was following Rufus, and was found by
Esperel. She manages to fight off both of them, making them flee.
On the second of Marpenoth, Thagdul comes by HQ to deliver a 1500 gp reward in the form of Lantanese trade bars.
He is happy about the operation that the CRH and NC ran against the Wavesilver Villa. He also delivers money for
the mithral that was taken out of the Villa. They discuss what happened to the Hunnabar staff at that time. Thagdul
suggests that such a professional job must have been done by someone like the Shadow Thieves, or perhaps the
Dalael. Some amongst the CRH suspect the Hunnabars, but most suspect Thagdul.
On the third day of Marpenoth, Thagdul comes to the HQ to deliver a message. He has learned that Ersgul is going to
be shipping the Phaulkon Cargo, by sewer, to a cog on the 10th. This cog, the Silverpride, is captained by Semuldan
Anteos. Semuldan, despite being the son of Korrass, seems sympathetic to the patriarch of the Family, Dulbrawan.
Thus, he sold this information out, and so it came that a rogue named Gauntlet delivered this message to Thagdul,
who in turn delivered it to the adventurers.
The Wavesilver Villa Massacre
The CRH and the NC decide that they should seize the initiative here, and attack the Wavesilver Villa again. This
proves fruitless however. During the raid, Rychel fought the Baron for what seemed an eternity, while the Baron
calmly deflected attack after magically-enhanced attack from Rychel. To further add to their failure of this mission,
the Beholder Xulla confronted Esperel, who was sneaking around, and commanded him to ‘seize Jafar’s staff’. Of
course, he meant Yarkul’s staff, which he was using to immolate whomever he could find. The quick-thinking Esperel
gave Jafar his staff, and then took it, and brought it back to the Beholder. How he escaped after this event is
unknown, and indeed many doubt that crazy elf’s claim that he ran into Xulla *again*.
The culmination of this raid came in the form of a fireball from Jafar. He managed to kill a score of City watchmen, as
well as immolating Magistrate Thuman. The adventurers then made their escape. The Wavesilver Villa was put under
the watchful eye of Magistrate Richter at this point, and over 100 watchmen were put to the task of guarding it.
Back at HQ, the CRH and NC get into an argument with Jafar. Most, and Beljuril especially, are angered that he
killed so many civil servants with the fireball, and are worried about their place in the legal structure of the City
(seemingly, for the first time). Jafar begins to fade into obscurity at this point.

The Phaulkon Cargo
On the 10th, the final day of Harvestide, the CRH and NC planned their ambush of the Ersgul/Phaulkon Cargo. The
rogue Gauntlet was going to be leading the Cargo, and he had told the adventurers where to set up their ambush.
When the Cargo was seen coming down the channel, the ambush started. The fighting did not last long, however,
before the Dalael showed their hand, and trumped all. The very floor of the sewers gave way and collapsed. It fell
some 50’ into a great chamber from which silver-sash-wearing drow issued from every dark hole. There were at least
20 of them, and the adventurers knew they were beat. The power of Ersgul vanished in that pit, as the Dalael
butchered the few that survived the fall. Hightimber was cut down by Rufus.
The beholder Xulla made another appearance at this point. It and Quevin exchanged some harsh words before both
sides made their egress. Rychel confronted Xulla, only to be turned to stone without any effort from the creature.

Denouement
Company Ersgul put it’s faith in the wrong allies, it would seem. Yarkul’s Reprobates were no match for the CRH,
and he continually lost ground all summer to because of this. Further, he thought he had annexed a failing company in
the Dalael, but it turned out that he had the picture all wrong. Dalael managed to use Ersgul to bring them back into
the game, and the Phaulkon Cargo (which turned out to be a major pot that everyone was playing for) was easy
pickings after the losses that Ersgul had suffered throughout the summer, and also through the treachery and
complications of the Anteos Family, upon which everything seemed to hinge.
Winter, 1371-72
During Harvestide, Hob departed for Neverwinter to seek out Malkor. It was not difficult to find the man.
Hob traveled with a Red Shields caravan, and learned that only Malthoon’s High Road Shippers managed to
get along on the High Road unhindered all last year. That had changed ever since ‘those Harpers’ cleaned up
the mess. Hob decided to start his searching at Malthoon’s.
There, his searching ended. Malkor, a talented diviner, saw Hob coming and ambushed him in the
warehouse with dozens of darkenbeasts. Hob was put in a barrel and taken to Dekanter. There, he was let
out, and found that he was one of dozens of slaves. Most of the slaves would have died if not for the efforts
of the stalwart Halfling. He clothed and fed the slaves in the exposed pen (it was the beginning of winter
when they arrived in Dekanter) and built up their strength for the long march that was ahead of them.
Soon enough, they were marching across Anauroch. Again, Hob kept up the strength of the other slaves by
walking the lines and administering drinks to them. After the months-long march, Hob and his comrades
were sent to work in the mines west of Dagger Falls, and would not be rescued until the coming of the
Heroes from the Sands.
That does not mean that attempts were not made to find him before that…

Looking for Hob in All the Wrong Places
By late Marpenoth of 1371, Raven and Rufus decided that Hob was long overdue. The autumn was
tremendously cold already, and so the two decided to get moving before the snows closed the roads for
winter. The Raventree family supplied horses, and the journey to Neverwinter to locate Hob began.
Four days of riding brought the two to the mining town of Leilon. The single inn of the town, the Sword of
Leilon, is poorly organized, and expensive for these parts, but it was a welcome change from the cold they
had been sleeping in for the last three nights. The inn was quiet, and there were no travelers to make
inquiries of. The proprietors did recognize Hob’s description, though; apparently he had come through
weeks ago with a caravan of Red Shields (a trading company which operates along the Sword Coast, and in
the northern interior.
Two more days on horseback, and the pair came to Neverwinter. This expensive city frustrated both of
them it is difficult just to get through the winding streets, let alone find anything out. However, after a
couple days of looking around, they found a group of Red Shields in the Shining Serpent Inn. Inside, the
place is absolutely full of men from this company, and after some well-worded inquiries, they found
themselves speaking to a man named Agamemnon, in his room upstairs.
“I do know your friend, Hob,” explains the scholarly looking man. “He took passage from Waterdeep with
us a couple of tendays ago, and I have not heard from him since. I suspect that he was going to the shipping
house of Malthoon’s High Road Shippers, as he made some inquiries about them. It does not bode well that
you have not heard from him after all this time.
“I should like to help you find him, as I may be partially responsible for his fate. It was I that pointed him in
the direction of Malthoon’s. Come, let us set out now.” Shortly, they found themselves being led through
the streets with Agamemnon. Just as the sun was vanishing behind the roof-line of the city, the three turn up
outside the office of the shipping house.
Upon approaching, a man was stealing out the door, and looking altogether very suspicious. This prompts
action from Agamemnon, who yells ‘Hold there!” The person is startled and bolts. He is quickly caught in an
alley by the three, and looked altogether frightened. The man appeared to be in his mid-thirties, had short
black hair, brown eyes, and was dressed in leather armour with the sign of the Red Shields on his breast.
“Bartelos, you cur!” exclaims Agamemnon, who is clutching the prisoner. “What are you doing sneaking
around here?” and he throws the man into a pile of trash, stands and faces the two to speak lowly to them.
“Look up his left sleeve, Raven…” he implores. Pulling back his sleeve Raven finds the black mark of the
Zhentarim tattooed on his left shoulder. “Hold him, while I cast a spell to see what is going on,” he asks, and
then casts a short spell, then concentrates, eyes closed.
Thud! Thud! Agamemnon gives the Zhent two quick boots to the ribs, and the picture of rage is observed on
his face. “This Zhent villain has com here looking for his master. I have read his surface thoughts. His master
is not here, but he is worried that we will find out about a man named Malkor, who has traveled to Luskan.
He is also afraid that we will find out about the slave caravan that Malkor is leading there.” This being said,
he asks “What shall we do with this piece of trash?”
It that time that the Watch came by and interrupted. After a quick exchange, they end up hauling off the
Zhent, leaving the three empty handed. “I have enough to go on; there are some friends of mine that I fear
may also have gone to Luskan on that slave caravan, and I aim to free them. What say you?” That night,
Raven and Rufus find themselves making preparations in Agamemnon’s room in the Shining Serpent for
travel north, and the next day, the three set off to Luskan.
It was bitter cold the morning they left, and a slight snow flurry erupts part way through the day. However,
after a hard day of riding, the three pull into Port Llast. The only inn in this village of 700 is The Alliance
Arms, and it is in this quiet place that an attempt is made on their lives. While sleeping that night, someone
set fire outside their room. The smoke quickly filled the place, and the three found themselves bailing out of
the second-floor window. Below, a flock of assassins was waiting with poisoned crossbow bolts. Through a
little bit of luck, most of the bolts struck Rufus, and had little effect. The five assassins were quickly
overcome by the abilities of the three, and four were captured alive (Raven having killed one). Once again,
the mage cast a spell for interrogation, and learned that the assassins were regular army from Luskan, hired
by an unknown man to kill the three of them. Little else was discovered, and the local authorities hung the
men the next morning.
That morning Agamemnon donned a suit of leather armour and bow. The bow had a symbol of Meiliki on it,
and for Rufus, the resemblance of this man in this gear was far too reminiscent of the road-mage Zaltim.
Throughout the day Rufus managed to bring up the subject obliquely and learned that Agamemnon was a
very close friend to Zaltim and Ansul Bloodshoulders. He explains that he had come here to help them, but
he could not find them. The news of their deaths, conveyed by Rufus, brought the man into a rage, and the
rest of the journey to Luskan was made shorter by his determined pace.
Reaching Luskan the three are all treated like spies and thieves as soon as they enter the place, and there are
certainly people following them at all times. Luckily, after a little investigation, they manage to learn that a
suspicious-looking caravan headed to Mirabar a couple weeks ago. A couple witnesses claimed that they
heard moaning coming from barrels that were supposed to be delivering salted fish to the miners of Mirabar.
By then, winter was near.
The winter of 1371-1372 (Year of Wild Magic) was miserable, and remained so by the date of Greengrass,
1372. A blizzard blew out of the Spine of the World in the middle of Uktar that did not let up for a whole
month, and the rest of winter was bitter and cold. Snow had been falling almost constantly since then, but
had let up just previous to Greengrass. It remained cold, however, and the snow had not melted
considerably.
By the end of Ches, events started to happen, and the adventuring season seemed to have begun. The first
event was the return of Rufus and Raven from their search for Hob (without Hob). The second was the
return of the daughter of Lord Phaulkon, Jeryth.
Where in the world is Hob Farwood?
When Raven and Rufus arrived back in Waterdeep on the 29th of Ches, they returned without Hob.
Apparently, Hob was captured by slavers in Neverwinter. He was shipped north to Luskan, then east to
Mirabar, then south along the Long Road, and from Amphail, no one knows. They traveled with a former
friend of the Road Mage, a person of similar vocation by the name of Agamemnon. In Amphail, Agamemnon
went east towards Loudwater to look for signs of the passage of the caravan. .
After a couple of weeks of information gathering, nothing of the caravan was learned in the City of
Splendours. It either slipped in unnoticed (as would most caravans bearing slaves), or it never came this
way.
The answer would come a couple of days before Greengrass, when Agamemnon would return to
Waterdeep. Agamemnon returned without Hob as well, but with his companion, Boregar. This mage turned
up first in the house of Azuth and met with Beljuril. Agamemnon learned that Beljuril was a former friend of
the Road Mage, and in turn befriended the priest of Azuth. Agamemnon was then off to locate another
friend of his that had apparently just recently arrived in the city.

The Last of the Phaulkons
On the same day that Agamemnon returned to the City, Jeryth Phaulkon (presumed dead for a duration of
three years) returned, with the mark of Meiliki’s Chosen. Jeryth explained that she had survived the ambush
that claimed the life of her mother, by the will of Meiliki. She then spent three years hunting gnolls all the
way from the Westwood to the High Forest. She was devastated to learn of the deaths of her sister and
father, and seemed to blame herself for much of the situation.
Lady Phaulkon bears the company no ill will for moving into her father’s house, but rather takes it as a sign
from Meiliki. She claims that you lot were thrust into her path to help avenge her father’s death.
Jeryth Phaulkon is an attractive woman about 35 years old. She is rough and rugged looking, but still
strangely attractive. She has long, mostly unkempt blonde hair with an ivory streak along the crown (the
mark of Meiliki’s chosen). She has green eyes that flash with vitality and energy and her medium height body
is healthy and strong, her frame muscular and fit. She wears rugged furs and frontier clothing. She keeps a
bow strapped over one shoulder and a pair of scimitars at her sides. Despite her appearance, she speaks like a
cultured Waterdhavian noblewoman.

The Adventuring Season Begins
When the adventure begins again, it is the last day of Tarsakh, and Agamemnon and Lady Phaulkon have
arranged to meet with as many members of the company as possible, to discuss what course of action should
be taken that spring.
It is still cold as the Eighth Layer out, and the festivities of the Greengrass Festival are likely to be cancelled.
Snow was falling lightly that day, and great chunks of ice were still flowing down the coast from the Sea of
Moving Ice to the north.
Summer, 1372
Decisions at Phaulkonmere
A group of adventurers and heroes comes together at Phaulkonmere to discuss the Zhent and Drow threat to the City
and to points beyond. Many present were there because they had been involved in this mess for so long. Others were
there through a sense of duty to their fellow man. Some were there because they were seeking such things as
adventure, fame and fortune. Some were there for even more selfish reasons. And some were there for the simple
reason of pursuing vengeance.
Present at Phaulkonmere that day were the following;
    •    Rychel Voordan                     •    Fazil the Fantabulous             •    Beljuril
    •    Boregar, the Wanderer              •    Corrina                           •    Sparrow
    •    Lady Maevri of Rashemen            •    Hannibal Felthian                 •    Brandel
    •    Rufus Larrigan                     •    Oliver Windemchester              •    Jeryth Phaulkon
    •    Maturin Horgath                    •    Garth Shanks                      •    Agamemnon
    •    Zechary Mudge                      •    Jafar                             •    Mourn “Raven”
    •    Esperel                            •    Oberon of Netheril                     Raventree
Thagdul was conspicuously absent from this meeting, but Jafar insisted that he represented Thagdul. This did nothing
if not make worse the CRH member’s opinion of this wayward mage.
Events current and past were discussed. From the East, Boregar brought a report most grim. The Zhents had taken
over Dagger Falls once again, and Randal Morn himself had been hanged from the new bridge over the Tesh River.
Yarkul had been installed as ruler of Daggerdale, and his rule was enforced by an elite mercenary company known as
The Fist. Further, churches to Bane and Iyachtu Xvim had been built, and the town appeared to be taken for good.
Further, the Zhents had hundreds of slaves toiling in a number of mines. It was suspected that Hob was imprisoned in
one of these slave camps. Outposts had been built in Anauroch, and Zhent caravans were coming and going through
the Great Sand Sea with little difficulty, and the town of Dagger Falls was growing rich off the trade through its gates,
as it is the gateway to Anauroch from the East.
All trade through the more traditional routes (such as through the gap at Tilverton and then through Cormyr) had
ceased because of a couple reasons. Tilverton had been overrun by goblinoid hordes again, and a Zhent banner was
flying from the city’s walls. Cormyr was involved in a costly war with the Sembians over a border-mountain that
Mithral had been found in. The resurrection of Bane had much to do with the problems in the East, but the Zhents
had seemed also to have played the hand that was dealt them in a most cunning manner there.
In summary, almost all trade between the Western Heartlands, The North, Amn, Tethyr and Calimshan was coming
through the desert upon Zhent cargo trains, or paying huge fees to use their roads and buy safe passage. The Zhents
were growing wealthy, and most of this wealth seemed to be pouring into Dagger Falls, where extensive fortifications
were being constructed. Clearly, an expedition would have to be sent east to set things straight. Yarkul, at least,
would die. Or so was the pledge of Sparrow.
In the North, a second objective was set. Malkor would have to be brought down and the roads made safe once again.
The work of the Road Mage was not complete, and Beljuril and Rufus had made a pledge that they would honour.
Finally, the City of Splendours itself became the last objective. It was clear that the Zhents had too much influence in
this city, and indeed, much of their wealth and power structure was now located here. With the Company Dalael as
another huge problem to be fixed, perhaps the group should have assigned a more capable task force to this objective.
Be that as it may, here are the stories of these three teams…
Summer, 1372, Neverwinter
To set things straight in Neverwinter, and to repay their oath to the Road Mage, Rufus and Beljuril chose this path.
Along with them came a band of adventurers that had recently traveled from the Dalelands. This group (though the
whole group was sundered to send men with certain talents on certain missions) was comprised of May, a Witch from
Rashemen, Oberon, an ancient rogue who had been rescued from a 3000 year stasis in an ancient dungeon, and
Oliver, Master of Human Nature.
It was decided that secrecy was needed on both expeditions. To defend against the divining eyes of Malkor, Jafar sent
Yarkul’s staff along with this party. The staff is supposed to provide protection from divination, but the NC finds that
they are always one step behind Malkor anyway…
This crew was plagued during their journey by a portion of the headhunting company known as Grimwald’s
Rangers. These were men who had fame and fear in many lands, and were well known by Oliver, himself from the
same Dale as the leader of the outfit, ‘Sheriff’ Grimwald. The Neverwinter Crew and the Dagger Falls Crew all
traveled as far as Roarke’s Tavern together, where their roads would part. It was here that the Rangers were first
encountered. Their number was 7 at that point, and all were men who whore grim faces, fell and stern. The newest
member of the Rangers, and the only one to say a word was Stone Man, a huge man with a huge axe. He tried to pick
a fight with the adventurers, but none ensued that day.
Days later, the Neverwinter Crew (NC) would actually get the drop on the Rangers. Suspecting that they were being
followed, Rufus stayed hidden in the forest, allowing his companions to pass, and the Rangers as well.
Rufus found that three Rangers were following them;
    •    Shellwynd Thann, A Dalesman and old partner of the Sheriff. He was a crack shot with a musket.
    •    Tuugan Voun, a large man with a large two handed sword
    •    Derrick Swift, a half-elf, and one of the sneakier members of the Rangers. Fights with paired short
         swords.
With the help of an invisibility spell from Beljuril, Rufus managed to follow the three for the day. They were all
riding mounts of the best quality, but stopped often to check the trails, and were wary of ambushes. When they
stopped to camp, Rufus hit them with a Call Lightning spell. He managed to kill two of the horses, and bought the NC
some valuable time.
On the 17th of Mirtul, The NC arrives in Leilon. They had run the horses hard to get here, hoping to have some time
to prepare to fight the Rangers, or, even better, make their way for Neverwinter unabated.
However, that would prove to be the longest night the NC ever had to spend. They were harassed all night by sniper-
shots through windows (obviously from Shellwynd). What spells they cast to defend themselves are wasted, as they
cannot rest to recover. The Rangers seemingly know this, and do not relent.
When the NC goes to the authorities to ask for help, they are put in jail ‘for their own good’. The jail itself is attacked
as well, and the NC is nearly incinerated in their cell.
Towards the end of the long night, while orcs mounted a raid outside the city, Leilon became a chaotic mess. The NC
decided to hole up in a temple to Lathander, but the Rangers pursued them there as well. The result of this encounter
was the death of Tuugan by May’s familiar-snake. The other two made good their escape.
The NC shared harsh words with the Ruler of Leilon, who insists that the NC is trouble makers and that they are not
welcome to return. The next morning, a pair of notes is delivered to the NC. The first is from the Lord of Leilon,
and the second from Atemnon.
         Dear Troublesome Travelers;
         My apologies for the complicated and trying events of yesterday. All of our tempers were not held properly
         in check, and I suspect this was mostly due to the efforts of some evil enchanter.
         Here is the sword that you tried to acquire from me through deceit. You have gained it merely through
         sympathy. Although I worry that you will be vulnerable out on the road, I still must turn you out, and
         request that you never show your faces in my city again.
         Pelinder Filmarya
         Lord of Leilon



         Dear Friends & Fellows

         If you turn around as soon as you leave the city, and head back to Waterdeep, I will
         give you a chance to live. Never come north of Waterdeep again, or you shall surely
         perish.



         Atemnon




While these notes anger the NC tremendously, they can do not but bear it, as a more important goal lies ahead.
On the High Road once again, The NC catch up with a Red Shields caravan and travel with them to the city. As the
caravan nears the city, it is attacked by an enormous throng of darkenbeasts. The NC and the caravaners all took
pause. Then, Rufus invoked his moonblade and lead a charge into the throng. After a drawn out battle with the
unflinching creatures, the caravan and the NC were victorious.
On the 26th of Mirtul, the NC arrives in Neverwinter. The crew finds the city difficult to navigate through. The
streets are all deliberately winding, and the place does not seem to make sense. They have to hire guides (young boys,
who are paid one cp) to take them through the city. One guide explains that years of warring with Luskan and
goblinoid hordes in the North has necessitated the confounding urban planning of the place.
While lodging the first night, Beljuril scries upon the last two Rangers, and learns that they are heading south through
the mountains. Seemingly they have been routed.
The first lead that the NC follows is that of Malthoon’s High Road Shippers. This proved to be a bit of a cold trail
however. The mage Githias (Malkor) had sold the company to a legitimate merchant at an exorbitant price. This is
perhaps the last profit gained from his villainy the year before.
The NC is able to track down the house that Githias lived in. They speak to his neighbors, one being an upstanding
priest of Oghma, who tell them that they think Githias left town for ‘more fertile waters’. They say that while the
house was occupied, that the servants had to take loads of dung out of the place every day. The house is then
searched, but appears abandoned.
Tracking down every lead they have, all lead to the same information; Githias left days ago. Some say by caravan, but
many accounts put him on a boat. They also learn that he has a new staff, this one with an ugly beholder head atop it.
All attempts by Beljuril to scry upon the mage fail, likely because of the staff he bears.
After much digging, the NC learns of a company called the Moon Wheel Trading Coster. This Coster has an office in
Waterdeep, but also here in Neverwinter, off the harbour. It is learned that barrel-loads of dung are carted out of this
warehouse daily. Further investigation about ships reveals that only a few ships in the entire merchant fleet have been
able to navigate on the Sea of Swords. These are the Myrmidon, the Dolphin Star and Waukeen’s Wyvern. They Myrmidon
is registered to the Moon Wheel and the Dolphin Star to Emuldan’s Carters (a lead they had forgotten about…).
The NC approaches the problem of dealing with the Zhents in a more lawful manner than the CRH. They approach
the Neverwinter Militia to disclose that they are in town to rid it of Zhent spies, and are quickly given audience with
Lord Nasher. Lord Nasher is quick to give thanks for their efforts, and assures them that they will not encounter the
same corruption found in other cities of the North.
On the 27th of Myrtul, the NC goes to the Moon Wheel trading house. This place is an office with a large warehouse
behind. It is adjacent to the board walk on the harbour. There, they talk to a clerk who unexpectedly tells the NC
that Githias will be meeting with a business associate at the Gilded Serpent that afternoon.
The NC show up at the Serpent and case it out. They wait for either Malkor or his ‘associate’ to show up, and after a
while Atemnon makes an appearance. The NC hatch a ridiculous plan to have Atemnon arrested for the ‘poisoning’ of
Oberon, but the whole thing fails miserably, and Atemnon escapes out the back.
Further research that night reveals that Githias is living on the Myrmidon, which is moored in the harbour beside The
Moon Wheel office. Investigation of this boat reveals that no one is living on it, however. The NC also learns that
flying creatures are seen flying in the harbour at nights, and that they disappear under the boardwalk somewhere in
the north western corner of the harbour (which is where the Moon Wheel office is).
The NC also learns of a spy named Onyx, who seems to be some sort of intermediary between Luskan and the
Zhents. They intercept this note;

         Myrtul 27
         Onyx:
         The Dolphin Star and The Myrmidon will be heading north in no more than two tenday. Please
         consult your man and make the proper arrangements. He can expect about 20 units of cargo, for
         which I will expect 150 gp each.
                  – Ryerson
On the 28th, things start to happen quickly. The NC follows up their lead on Emuldan’s Carters. Making a forcible
entry to the place, a skirmish ensues. The NC manages to take down a cagey Zhent rogue named Ryerson, and
recover the following notes from the desk in the office Emuldan office;

         Myrtul 27
         Gaskar
         You are to be in Dekanter by no later than Kythorn 20. Please load up lots 22, 23, 24, 25 and 42.
         You will meet up with a man named Gildon, who you will negotiate a trade with. Do not trade for
         less than 100 gp/unit.
                  – Ryerson
Mirtul 28
Ezmail;
You will have to act quickly.
1) The following must be procured and transported to Castle Haerytar.
               a) Moonwheel Warehouse – Lots 4, 6, 8, 10, 12
               b) Irlingstar Warehouse (NW) #2 – Lots 1,2,3,4,5,6,11,13,15,19
               c) Emuldan’s – everything that’s left
2) Transfer Emuldan’s bullion to the Moonwheel Warehouse
3) Meet the Eye north of Castle Haerytar on the 4th of Kythorn.
This does not give you much time, but Malkor is worried about something. That worrisome old mage.
Ryerson
It is later discovered that Gaskar and Ezmail were the two caravan masters for Emuldan’s Carters. Neither is found.
With Ryerson captive, the NC interrogates him on the spot, and through the use of Beljuril’s divinations, learns that
Malkor is on Waukeen’s Wyvern. A group of Nasher’s Paladins shows up at this point, and they execute Ryerson for
being a slaver and a spy.
An examination of the Moon Wheel warehouse office turns up this note below;


                    MALKOR;
                    Here is the scroll you requested. Please have the message I
                    have also enclosed delivered to Gilthzan, and send him to face
                    the troublesome lot that is plaguing our cause.
                    Two birds...




This note gave the NC much to think about…
Waukeen’s Wyvern is quickly found, moored at the docks, and a battle is quickly joined by the NC, Malkor and the few
men he had around him. Were the fight at night, there may have been problems from his numerous darken beasts,
the battle is in the middle of the day, and the NC has the advantage.
The battle goes sour, however. Malkor, recklessly wielding the powerful Hunnabar beholder staff, casts numerous
fire balls wantonly at the NC, and also into the civilians on the docks. Rufus bears the brunt of several of these spells.
To his credit, he absorbed more damage than a dozen men, but in the end it was too much, and he succumbed to the
powerful destructive magics of the staff and the cruel will of the madman wielding it. Rufus was slain.
Malkor managed to make good his escape at that point. His ship puts out, and is soon found to be in the escort of cogs
from Luskan. A fleet comprised of Neverwinter military vessels is put together as quickly as possible, and they give
chase. The NC takes passage aboard one of the vessels, the captain happy to have them along.
The chase lasts long into the night, and it isn’t until the pre-dawn hours of the 29th that the naval engagement begins.
The night found the pursuing Neverwinter fleet plagued by darken beasts, but they finally caught the slower, if larger,
Luskan Cogs.
Several ships were sunk in the engagement, and, regrettably, many men on both sides died. But in the end, Malkor
was slain by the efforts of the NC. An archer aboard the Neverwinter warship was responsible for the killing arrow
that took the villain down, but all were quick to give credit to the NC, who gave more than they asked.
The Hunnabar staff was reclaimed by the heroic and dashing efforts of Oliver.
Back on land, Lord Nasher throws a great feast in honour of the heroes, and Rufus is given an appropriate ceremony.
The Zhent threat to Neverwinter had been eliminated, and a statue of the heroes was begun. To this day, high atop
the Southern High Road Gate, by which the heroes first entered the city, a 25’ high statue sits atop the 40’ keystone
of the gate. The statue depicts the heroes, including Rufus and the archer that killed Malkor. All are standing in a
circle atop a mound of dead darken beasts, holding the captured staff up high in the air.
The house that Malkor had owned was given as a reward to the heroes. Oberon and May stayed on at the house, and
dropped out of this story. Their story does not end here, but their part in this tale does. They bid their farewells to
their friends, especially to Oliver, whom the two had traveled so far with, and to whom Oberon owes the debt of his
freedom.
Beljuril and Oliver returned to Waterdeep with the staff, and arrived in good time. Beljuril’s tale continues in a later
chapter, but for Oliver, his part in this story, too, had come to an end. Oliver found his friend Arkos Thunderstaff
(Falcon) who was putting together an expedition to the south, and he joined on. Oliver bid farewell to Beljuril, and
here he leaves this story. Like May and Oberon, his tale is not here told to it’s end, but his pivotal involvement in this
tale here is concluded.
What became of Beljuril in the City of Splendours is told in a later chapter.
Summer, 1372, Daggerdale
The incredible tale of the Daggerdale expedition becomes it’s own tale begins on 6 Mirtul, when the heroes
of this story depart the Roarke’s tavern and the NC. Maturin, Raven, Sparrow, Hannibal and Corrina take
the Long Road north and west towards Rassalantar, and ultimately towards the road through Anauroch to
Daggerdale.
The first village along the route towards the desert is Rassalantar. Here, the Daggerdale Expedition (DE)
found that they were being followed by 4 members of the Rangers.
    •    Sheriff Grimwald, former corrupt Sheriff in the Dalelands, skilled swordsman, mage and armed
         with the Repeating Gond Pistola.
    •    Agilos Vourn, skilled tracker from the Dales, armed with a pair of powerfully enchanted magical
         long knives.
    •    Archibald Suresmith, former Purple Knight of Cormyr, still bearing the arms and armour of a
         knight.
    •    Stoneman, youngest, largest and newest member of the Rangers, armed with a large axe.
In the village, the DE learns that a large caravan had disappeared outside of town. Thinking that Zhents
might be responsible, they go to investigate. Boregar and Raven find evidence that 30-40 humanoids with
heavy boots appeared out of nowhere and attacked the caravan. Further, a large spider dragged many of the
bodies off to the west. It is late at this point, and the heroes return to town.
That night, Maturin gets into a fight with Stoneman, and looses to the young Ranger, though he is not killed.
The next day, the DE follows the spider tracks found the day before. They lead to a small ruined keep in the
woods. Bodies are found scattered everywhere, and soon a large, cunning spider attacks the party. They
manage to repel the thing, but then find that Grimwald’s Rangers have followed them. In the brief melee
that followed, the DE manages to drive them off.
Leaving the ruined keep, the DE splits up for a time. Maturin decides that he must return to Rassalantar and
inform the authorities about the keep and the spider, and the rest continue north. Maturin’s great steed,
Warburden should be fast enough to catch the rest of the DE.
Things go poorly, however, when Maturin is confronted on the road, alone, by the Rangers. He fights a
knightly-duel with the Sheriff, the two charging at each other on horseback, making a quick exchange, and
then wheeling about for another pass. Pass after pass they made, and Maturin seemed to be getting the best
of the Sheriff. In the final pass however, the Sheriff ducked behind the neck of his great horse, and fired from
this low, covered position. Three shots from the artifact pistol made the Paladin go limp in his seat.
Later that night, Warburden charged into Amphail, the Paladin of Ilmater lying prostrate in the saddle. His
companions manage to bring him back to health through magical means, but all are somewhat worried about
the Rangers. Boregar especially has some concern, though he tries not to let it show. He has had run-ins with
the Rangers years ago in the Dalelands.
Leaving Amphail for Bargewright Inn the next day, the DE sees a farm burning to the north of the trail. They
rescue some farmers from some well-organized ettins and Orogs. This is the farm of Ned Griffin, and
despite the help that the DE offered here, they will find soon that this encounter would taint their name.
Arriving in Uluvin the next day, the DE meets Razor, a half-orc head hunter who is hunting after an orc
slaver named Curlclaw. The party learns that Curlclaw is in the village meeting with a caravan that has
arrived.
Then next morning, the DE and Razor attack Curlclaw and the caravan masters who are staying at the inn.
The Caravan turns out to be a Zhent caravan that was buying slaves from Curlclaw. The DE and Razor
manage to kill the orc slaver and the caravan masters, and free about 20 slaves.
The DE presses on into the town of Secomber. Here, they have their reckoning with the Rangers. The quick
and chaotic battle went the DE’s way for the most part, but the Rangers proved to be deadly adversaries.
Agilos, Archibald and Stoneman were all killed by Razor, and Grimwald was eventually bested by Maturin in
another duel, but not before he gunned down Raven, who charged bravely at him. Hannibal’s wild magic
seems to have consumed him, but none are certain of the fate of this mage who seemingly vanished from the
battle.
The next day, the captive Grimwald was put to death in his cell by Boregar, who shot him with his own
pistol. Boregar assumed possession of the Gond Pistola from that point.
Heading further east the next day, the DE (who has parted ways with the miscreant assassin, Razor) camps
out at some ruins by a river crossing. Here they meet Dorian of Sembia, in the guise of Tristan of
Shadowdale. The DE was most suspicious of this ‘druid’ who was wearing chain mail armour and carrying a
sword. They did not yet realize that they were traveling with the Greatest Swordsman in the Realms. The
DE is also joined by the dwarven battlerager, Dalak, who is searching for his brother Balak, who has likely
been captured by the same slavers that the DE is pursuing in Dagger Falls.
The first obstacle to this new group of friends was the Ebon Spur. This caravan was clearly a Zhent caravan,
and was also well seeded with assassins, fighters and priests. A priest named Cauldrawn and a mage named
Duncan were bested by the new company, and the following letter was found upon the body of Cauldrawn;
         Mirtul 2, 1372 DR
         Cauldrawn,
         There are a pair of men that you should know about heading your way.
             1) Mourn “Raven” Raventree of Meiliki. This able ranger is leading a team of
                Harpers and associates to Daggerdale. He is a large, clean-shaven man with a
                patch over his left eye. He is of noble blood.
             2) Boregar “The Wanderer”. This fat Harper is a master of the staff, if not
                personal hygiene or manners.
         You will be rewarded 500 gold for each of them, should their heads be brought to my
         man in Daggerdale.
         They also travel with a paladin of Ilmater, a mage from the Dalelands, a gnome and a
         shady character named Sparrow. Each of them is worth 100 gp to you.
         Use whatever means you can to stop them from reaching Anauroch. Contact the Ebon
         Spur in Llorkh, and tell them that Duncan Eldoun will no longer be indebted to me,
         should this task be done.
This letter was dated 2 days after Boregar and Raven met, and the means by which this information reached
points east so fast is still unknown to this day.
Along the road to Loudwater, in the town of Zelbross, the DE encountered the Harper Garrick. Garrick and
Boregar were old friends, and were glad to see each other. The DE and Garrick were put up for a night at
the tower of a mutual friend of the two harpers named Durnax, a retired adventurer. Garrick explained that
he did not trust the ‘new’ manager of the inn in town, the Last Place. The proprietor, Ordilar appears to
have come into possession of the inn under suspicious circumstances. Corrina went poking around and made
an interesting find. Atop the small inn, she found a shack with some pigeons and empty cages. Using her
magic, she learned from a pigeon that winged snakes were used to fly across the desert and deliver messages
to this shack. From here the pigeons take the notes to points west. Corrina managed to convince the pigeon
to take its notes to Durnax’s tower from then on.
Back in the tower, Garrick had grim news to give to the travelers. He has many details about the troubles
blocking travel and trade from East to West, and all things seem to point to an enormous Zhent plot that
seems to be working. Monsters on the borders of Cormyr, rampant privateering on the Sea of Fallen Stars,
The risen cult of Bane, the war in Cormyr with Sembia. All key trade routes to the East were closed except
for the recently re-opened route through Anauroch.
He explains that the Zhents have found the capital and slaves enough to rebuild Dekanter (an ancient ruin)
and that their influence in the mountains and hills to the west of Anauroch is strong. Orogs and orcs in the
area have been well trained and well armed, and are letting only select caravans through.
Garrick produces a map of Anauroch at this time, which he gives to Boregar. The map is of Zhentish origin,
and marks the road (really, just tracks through the sand) through the desert, and the 4 Zhent outposts along
the way.
Garrick has some bad news to give Boregar that night in the safety of the tower; Harpers all throughout the
Realms are turning up dead or going missing. Their numbers are dangerously low.
The next day, Garrick departs, indicating that he is going to ‘find another way through’, and that hopefully
he and his old friend will meet on the other side.
The DE continues east, and arrives in the morose town of Loudwater. Loudwater was still recovering from
the afflictions of a mage named Azmund, who cast some powerful spells upon the town two years previous.
The mage had been captured (Kennyth and Gaebril and Garrick are responsible for this), but the mage was
still imprisoned. Apparently, any man or woman attempting to put him to his death is struck with a fear of
their own demise, and find themselves unable to do him in. Thus, Azmund lives in the dungeons of the Keep
in Loudwater to this day.
Another more interesting discovery in Loudwater was this poster;
                     NOTICE
         A Group of Criminals heads this way!
A gang of murderers being led by a brigand named RAVEN and a rapist
named BOREGAR have been spotted and chased out of points west
(known to have killed 10 people in Amcathra, abducted 2 children from
Bargewright Inn and raped 2 women on the road to Secomber at Griffin’s
Farm.

RAVEN is described as a large, muscular man with a patch over his left
eye, and BOREGAR is described only as a large, fat man who favours a
staff.

These men should be avoided by all but the most skilled of swordsmen.

A 200 gold piece reward for either of these men can be claimed in
Llorkh at the Garrison.


              BEWARE!!!
Not only did they find that poster, but once again ran across the assassin Razor, who by this time was calling
himself the ‘Greatest Bounty Hunter in the Realms’. Razor had a copy of the poster in his greasy jerkin, and
smiled cruelly at the DE as they passed him by.
Loudwater was the last civilized place on the East Road at this point in the journey, and the DE paused in
this solemn town to re-supply. All stayed in Loudwater for a time, except Boregar who argued that there
was no time to waste. And so, he lived up to his name and left early, to wander the East Road.
The rest of the DE left a couple days afterward, and upon their travel along the East Road, they received
magical word from Beljuril that the NC had been victorious. The grim news about the death of the Harper
Initiate Rufus is taken hard by Boregar, who is starting to suspect some greater plot, and fears that someone
has infiltrated his order, or sold them out.
While crossing the mountains that border the great Sand Sea, the DE run into many encounters with
humanoids, both unorganized and organized. In one particular encounter in a wild magic zone, a demon
came to the rescue of the DE, killing a pair of hill giants and chasing a third off into the hills.
The DE comes to Dekanter, and finds that the town is under quite a bit of construction, and that they make
no efforts to hide their allegiance; banners of the Zhentarim and of Cyric fly freely here, and there is clearly
much slavery here. The DE was loathe to leave this abomination behind, but a great task had been set before
them, and so they pressed on, the desert just a day away.
Anauroch
Heading into Anauroch, the DE is disheartened to find that they have traveled less than 20 miles after about
4 days, and soon after that they learn that they have traveled in a circle for a long time. Sand storms called
‘Azirla Dahab’ plague their passage, and it seems as if though the desert was not going to let them pass.




On the 16th of Kythorn, the DE, and Maturin especially, had an encounter with fate. It was on this day that
they encountered Grandfather, a great werelion, and his consorts on a rocky heel jutting out of the hot
golden sands. Grandfather demanded tribute in flesh for passage, but none was offered. Grandfather and his
consorts attacked, and in a long battle with the creatures, Maturin, Boregar, Dorian and Sparrow were all
wounded by the great werelion. Maturin, especially, took wounds numerous and grievous enough that there
was little doubt that he had been infected. Dorian was spared his death by Tymora alone, as Grandfather’s
great maw found his neck, and flung his limp body into the sands before ripping at the guts of the dangerous
battlerager. In the end, they managed to repel the creatures, but their wounds were severe. Here are the
recorded thoughts of Maturin the Grey from the next day;
         17 Kythorn
         It is less than two months since we left Waterdeep, yet it seems that years have been
         stripped from my life. Our party has been five days in the desert, and we have covered less
         than twenty miles.
         The desert wind whips my robes about me, the sand stings my eyes and open wounds.
         Sharp pains shoot through my skull. My vision blurs. The bite of the lion-creature, the
harsh and blinding light of the desert sun, and my own internal turmoil are almost more
than I can bear.
I endure.
We are stopped for a rest on the path leading us towards salvation or damnation. The
first Zhent-tainted oasis lies over a day’s travel ahead. We will find no respite. What
we might have paid for will be denied us- my money is gone. Our horses are gone.
I glance around.
Dorian is crouched on his haunches beside me, coughing silently and clutching his ruined
throat. I watch him spit blood onto the sand. The moisture evaporates immediately,
leaving a faint discoloration on the pale sands.
The heat presses down.
Dorian writes with a shaky hand on a crumpled page of vellum torn from his depleted
journal. Precious inks stain his hands. He hands me the note.
‘We must continue’.
Sparrow helps Corrina, lurching in the saddle. Her face is sullen. She glances at me, and
blame, bitterness and anger spew from her eyes. Her cheeks are sunken. Her hair is lank.
She fears for her unborn child.
Boregar pushes ahead. He was withdrawn into himself. Since Raven’s death he has been
distant and driven. I cannot catch his eye. His boots crunch the sand.
I follow.
Warburden marches beside me. Even he, most noble creature, seems defeated. He tolerates
Dalak with no complaint. He carries our supplies. He carries our armour. He carries the
folly of my pride.
The party carries the marks of my sin.
O Lord Ilmater! It was Your Will that I saw the evil in the noble-looking Lion. It
was Your Will that I fight It. But the Creature did not act in evil! Tribute for safe
passage. It did not seek war, but peace. It is peace that I long for, and it is peace that
You denied me!
I remember fighting in the Bloodstone armies against the brigand forces of the Lich-
King of Vaasa. I remember the blood, the anger, the hatred, the pain and the sorrow. I
vowed to stop the wars. I vowed to heal, to struggle to save lives, not take them. I vowed
to ease suffering wherever it existed in the Realms.
But yesterday, my Lord, You showed me Evil. Yesterday, my Lord, You asked for
Blood. Why did it sue for peace, O Lord? Why did it seek to spare us? I feel the
blood course through my veins. Lycanthropy. I touch my tongue to my teeth. Are they
sharper? My skin itches. Tomorrow night is the full moon. Is this Your Will?
I feel the eyes of the party on me.
         They fear me.
         I fear myself.
         A gust of wind. Warburden rears up. Dalak pitches to the ground. I reach out a hand
         to restraint the mount, then reach down to help my comrade. His wounds have opened. I
         tend to them carefully, reassuring him. He grunts stoically, but I see the worry in his
         eyes. I know that my dread writhes equally within him.
         Ignorance and suspicion eat at our bellies. Tomorrow night we’ll know. Tomorrow night
         we’ll be tested.
         For now we continue.
         For now we endure.
         Ilmater, why have You forsaken me?

Nightmare at Vaerthyl
The next night, the DE arrived at the first Zhent oasis-outpost, Vaerthyl. Before they would leave this
outpost, Dorian, Sparrow, Maturin and Boregar turn into were-lions and rip the place apart. The battle
rager also helped in the destruction, but in the end he was met by Maturin in his lion-man form, and ripped
Dalak apart, nearly killing him.
The next day dawned with little hope for all of the heroes. The whirlwind of bloodshed, violence and
destruction was but a foggy memory. The four new lycanthropes found themselves alone, each waking up
alone and naked in an unfamiliar part of the desert. Most managed to find their way back to the oasis, and
there they found a horrific scene of slaughter. Men were ripped to shreds and many had clearly been feasted
upon. This caused the four infected members of the party to become sick to their stomachs. Zhents and
slaves alike had all been slaughtered. Horses had been butchered, walls clawed through. The entire place was
in absolute ruin. Corrina had gone missing, and never again was she heard from. Her story ends in obscurity
here.
A great pyre was made to burn all the corpses, and great piles of weapons and such were made. Dalak was
found, and tended to by Maturin all day, but things did not look good for the battle rager. Though the
remainder of the company looked for their missing comrade, at length they all solemnly admitted that it was
time to move on. The road continued, and so did their quest. They left behind a companion that day, and
many of the items they treasured and needed for the journey. But Maturin left behind everything. Ilmater
turned His back on Maturin that day, and the Paladin began his long lonesome trial, and went down the
godless road that he was bound to travel.
The remaining 4 members would have perished if not for a fortuitous meeting with a benign tribe of
Neshaba. These desert nomads were quick to help the DE, despite what all had heard about the people of
this land. It was not until much later that it became clear why. This particular band bore the symbol of the
Green Eye of Muir’Quaggoth, and they must have known about the infection in the veins of these men.
After days of wandering the road, they come to the second oasis-outpost, Olomaa. They decide not to tackle
this one head on, but in their attempt to circumvent the place, they were intercepted by the 14th company of
Fist mercenaries. They managed to destroy this company nearly to the man, but they learned that these 20
men were of elite training, and quick thinking.
Days later, as they trekked through the sands, the DE encountered another ‘golden death’ storm. This was
the worst one they would endure, and it was bad enough to sunder the company. Dorian was blown away
hopelessly in the storm, and the DE lost almost all of the valuable gear they had managed to retain after the
slaughter in Vaerthyl. When the storm finally subsided, Dorian and Sparrow were long gone, and no tracks
or trails were there to be followed. The desert had seemingly just swallowed the men up mercilessly.

Ilmater’s Messenger
Three days later, and two nights before the
full moon would rise again, a boon came
from the desert, and hope was put into the
hearts of all, but especially in the heart of the
Forsaken Paladin. A wanderer came from the
desert. A man who seemed a beggar came
over the dunes, and he helped along the
weakened Dorian, who he had found the day
before. Dorian had been staring at the sun
and hallucinating, drawing his final breaths.
The wanderer followed the birds of carrion
and rescued him.
This man, Shildevan the Wanderer, was a
holy man of Ilmater. He was on a holy
pilgrimage to harsh lands everywhere, and
the hand of Ilmater guided him to the DE.
The man had favour enough with Ilmater that
he could cure the horrible lycanthropic
sickness in the veins of the infected
members, but all had to agree to a quest in
order to receive this blessing.
The three men were all given an individual quest that they would have to fulfill, lest the curse of Ilmater
consume them.
Dorian was told he had to eliminate the threat posed by the Beholders, and that he could not accept any pay
for this mission. Though the clever Sembian agreed to not accept a single ‘copper piece’ for the entire quest,
he did not realize the scope of his challenge. Indeed, his was the only quest that would bring him back to the
streets of Waterdeep over a year later.
Boregar was commanded to be true to his friends, but to return and set right all the wrong he had left
behind. This seemed like a great task as well, given all the evil they had turned their cheeks on during the
journey out here.
Maturin was commanded to free the slaves of Dagger Dale, and then to return to the desert to slay the
Chosen of Muir’Quaggoth, Grandfather.
Shildevan made his egress the next morning after lighting a fire for the sleeping companions.
Back on the road, the DE began to make solid headway after their fortuitous encounter with the holy
wanderer. They came to Addas Babar, and secretly traded with some slaves for food and water. A small fight
ensued, and Boregar was taken down by the mage Farim, the only survivor of the Vaerthyl massacre.
Though he was later rescued by his companions, the Gond Pistola was not recovered.
Days later the DE once again encounter the Nashaba, and this time their headman Kabina assigns a guide to
them, so that they may go through the desert quicker. After many more days of travel and after many more
pounds had come off of the frames of the travelers, the Desert’s Mouth Mountains came into view in the
East, and the hearts of the travelers leapt.
It should be said that all the obstacles, challenges, misery and atrophy of the desert have not been detailed in
this brief summary. The journey was one of constant loss and doubt, and in recorded history it was not
known that four lonesome travelers could make such a remarkable journey and live to tell about it, until
these four came out alive.

Into the Dales
While traveling in the bad lands between the desert and the mountains, the 4 encounter the ogre-mage Yin
Xu. They find they are unable to hurt the creature before he is able to escape using his gaseous form, but he
is also overmatched to fight these 4.
After crossing the mountains, the 4 head down into the fertile valley that is the border region between
Dagger Dale and Shadow Dale. The hearts of these men were renewed, though their bodies were just
beginning to recover from their journey. They traveled off the roads, as they were weakened and had
insufficient tools for making war, and knew that the Fist would be close by.
They encountered a group of Zhent scouts as they neared Shadow Dale, but they were rescued by a group of
elves of the Region, who Boregar was familiar with. The elves then escorted the DE to Shadow Dale, where
they arrived on the 4th of Eleint.
Even the Boregar was noticeably thin when the 4 turned up at the Old Skull Inn. The others had the look of
skeletons, and all were haggard, filthy and wretched. After they were cleaned up, and donned some new
clothing, they weren’t long fitting in at the taproom. Crowds flocked around them (despite their want for
some peace) and asked many questions of the men who had come from the desert to liberate the slaves of
Dagger Dale.
One of the guests at the inn that night was the noble fop, William Cormaeril. This man had come from
Cormyr, and claimed that he was the rightful heir to rule Dagger Dale with the death of Randal Mourn. He
had a small retinue that included a half dozen Purple Dragons, and he boasted that he would liberate Dagger
Dale from the treacherous Zhents, but he was not taken seriously by anyone who heard him.
That night peace would not come easily. Dragon entered the inn and made an attempt on Dorian’s life, but
was not successful. She managed to escape before any harm could befall her. Though she scorched and
skewered Dorian, her most grievous wound was upon his heart. The fool was beginning to fall for her.
The next morning, the epic scale of the events in the Dales was made greater yet again. The order of the
Broken Blade, including 8 knights of Tempus and their retinue, rode into Shadow Dale with full pomp and
ceremony. They, too, announce that they will be heading to Dagger Dale to put an end to the villainy there,
and that they will not wait a day. Their leader Sir Durnbold, implores Cormaeril to ride with them and
take his rightful seat after a valiant battle, but his cowardice was great, and the Broken Blade rode out that
very morning without him.
As the Paladins of Tempus went west out of town, all took it as a good sign. But then, the heavens gave ill
portent. The green and black vortex was seen in the sky, and it inspires panic in the village. As the sun was
coming up that morning and vortex was swirling, the Church of Lathander began its bifurcation. A fragment
of the church lead by Rewel Thunderstorm, the second-in-command of the church in Shadow Dale walks
out on High Dawnlord Cassimar’s sermon. Thunderstorm insists that the vortex is a sign, and that they
should have sent all available Lathanderites with Sir Durnbold to help in their noble quest.
By a reckoning put together by Kennyth much later, this was the morning that the slaves in the Dagger Hills
mines uncovered the beholder tablets, and the vortex was likely the manifestation of some god associated
with the beholders.
That night, good news and bad both come to the DE in the inn. Sparrow has emerged from the desert. He
explains that he was also helped by the nomads of the desert, and that magic sustained him. He brings ill
news though. That day he passed by the site of an ambush, and reports that the Order of the Broken Blade
have all been slain in ambush less than 20 miles from Shadow Dale. As this news spreads, so does the
bifurcation of the local church of Lathander.
The next morning, all surviving DE members are together and recuperated. They plan to re-supply today,
and to begin their toil. That morning, though, more trumpets are heard, and Shadow Dale once again seems
to be the stage for a play of the Gods. The holy trinity of Tyr, Torm and Ilmater march their brightest lances
and blades into Shadow Dale that morning. The following orders were present that morning;
    •    Order of the Golden Lion (Torm), led by Sir Gethard Soulbright
    •    Order of the Lambent Rose (Ilmater), led by Sir Lexinauth and Father Eisley of St.Collin’s
         Abbey. Both of these men refused to speak with Maturin.
    •    Knights of Justice (Tyr), led by Sir Wildermot Silverlance
One of the men in the tent-train of the OLR was Revered Brother Turin, who was an old friend of
Maturin’s. The two had served in the army together in Damara, fighting the Lich King of Vaasa. Turin was
glad to see his old friend, despite what politics where at work.
Word that day comes to Boregar from the local wood elves that Yarkul was spotted at the Dagger Hills mine
the day before, perhaps accompanied by a beholder. They took something large and heavy from the mine,
and marched away. Sparrow insists that the trail least cold lies in that direction, but there were many
questions about which task to start first. There were 3 slave mines to free, and the town itself to liberate.
The choices were many, and there were many political considerations now as well, with nights of three
orders in town.

The Second Battle at Anathar’s Dell
The night of the 6th, a great conference was held in the Twisted Tower. Lord Amcathra hosted a meeting
with the DE, the knights of the order, and the two leaders of the bifurcated church of Lathander. There
were many discussions as to what was the best course of action. As well, Sir Soulbright sued for some troops
from Amcathra, but he could spare none. The only Shadow Dalesmen that would accompany the warparty
would be a select few priest of Lathander from the Thunderstorm faction of the church of Lathander.
Early on the morning of the 7th, a war host rode out of Shadowdale the likes of which had not been seen in a
score of years. The three orders, accompanied by the DE set out. They had a retinue of priests of Ilmater
and Lathander in tow, as well as a few Shadowdale men who decided to follow with what arms they could
muster. Cassamar and Amcathra met them on the west edge of town, wished them luck and apologized that
they could offer no further aid.
20 miles later, the war host came to Anathar’s Dell. There, they found the small walled farm village burnt to
the ground, and the bodies of the slain Knights of the Broken Blade were strewn about, defiled and rotting.
They were put upon a pyre and given rites by the many holy men there. Their impetuousness was also
cursed at that time. The order had marched with the orders of the Trinity for many days, but would not
abide the pace of the Ilmater tent-train, and thus found their enemies two days too soon.
While the smoke billowed into the sky, an enemy host gathered on either side of the dell. To the north, the
Knights of the Black Gauntlet gathered. This is the militant order of the church of Bane, and had just
recently been assembled after the resurrection of Bane. To the south, the more formidable Brothers of the
Black Fist, led by Baron Drake assembled. This militant arm of the church of Iyachtu Xvim had been
growing for years at this point, and their main headquarters and training ground was located in Dagger Falls
at Brotherhood tower.
A brutal battle was joined, as the forces of good clashed with the forces of evil. Paladins of many gods
struggled against each other, and in the end it is difficult to say who won or lost. The Knights of the Black
Gauntlet were utterly destroyed, but the Brothers of the Black Fist were merely repelled. Baron Drake slew
several paladins of all three orders himself however, before he thought it prudent to lead his forces from the
field. In the end, the DE and the surviving members of the war host of the Trinity held the field, but at great
cost. And Baron Drake was far from defeated. He laughed as his demon-steed bore him from the field.
The battle rager Dalak was nearly killed that day as well. The Baron delivered a blow that eviscerated the
battle rager, and though it did not kill him, it put an end to his fighting days. He spent the rest of this story
convalescing in Shadowdale.
Anathar’s Dell is often referred to as Paladin’s Grave these days, for the 21 Paladins that are buried there.
It is late into the night before the war host marches again, and this is in the direction back to Shadowdale, in
acceptance of defeat and set back.
The next day was a day of many activities. A council is assembled again. When the survivors of Anathar’s
Dell describe what happened to Lord Amcathra, he voices his concern over the absence of the militant order
of the Church of Cyric, which is also strong in Dagger Falls. Cassamar and Thunderstorm get into a heated
argument over signs from Lathander, and the right and wrong course of action, and Thunderstorm goes so
far as to say that Cyric was not at the battle because he was at work in the heart of Cassamar, who should
have sent troops to the battle.
The Boregar set out that day to get word from his allies in the woods and surrounding country side. He
visited the significant other in his life, Silve Silverhand. This Harper and daughter of the famed Storm
Silverhand was a long time lover of Boregar. The two had a lasting but intermittent relationship. The two
lived harsh lives that kept them both on the road and apart, doing deeds they received little thanks for. This
day, they met as lovers and as colleagues. Silve had long ago planted a man in Dagger Falls, and had been
receiving correspondence from him for some time. She received the following bloodstained letter, which
she wished for Amcathra to see;
Lord Amcathra
This is all I have learned about the military in Dagger falls:
    •    Yarkul is the head of everything, military included
    •    Two branches: the Garrison and the Fist
The Garrison is led by Commander (formerly Constable) Tren Noemfor (IV epaulets).
There are 10 companies of 20 men, plus a captain (III) and 2 sergeants (II) each.
    •    1st Garrison is led by Captain Denethor, Randal Morn’s captor. They are always at the
         Tower.
    •    2nd Garrison, led by Captain Innisworth. It is stationed at the First mine (Rainhill).
    •    3rd Garrison is stationed at the Second mine (Chillholm). It is led by Captain Aegis,
         rumoured to be a half-ogre. Both sergeants are his sons.
    •    4th Garrison is led by Captain Braehl. It is stationed at the Third mine in the Dagger
         Hills. This company is exclusively made up of crazy Cyricists.
    •    5th through 8th Garrisons are stationed in town.
    •    9th Garrison is a cavalry company. It patrols the East Road. It is led by Captain
         Vargul, an aged veteran of this area’s wars.
    •    10th Garrison is also a cavalry company. It patrols the South Road.
The Fist
25 Companies, mostly of 20 men each.
1st Company is led by Commander Harrington (IV), also the Commander of the Fist
Mercenary Company itself. It is stationed at the Tower.
2nd Company Garlunk’s Roughriders
   •   Mostly half-orcs led by the Villain of Scardale. It patrols the East Road.
   •   9 survivors
3rd Company    Blacktooth’s Hussars
   •   Highly seasoned riders, mostly half-orcs. This company patrols the South Road.
4th Company    Sandalwood’s Roughriders
   •   Sandalwood is known as the Murderer of Mirabar. He is a nasty half-elf with
       infallible aim
5th Company    Gumbottom’s Guard
   •   A unit comprised of 10 hill giants. They are stationed at the gates to the Eastern
       Bailey
6th Company    Klangedon’s Hammers
   •   A terror squad of ogres dispatched for specific duties
7th Company    Gadbout’s Fangs
   •   The Captain Gadbout is known to have killed 2 sheriffs in the Dales. Another
       ‘specialist’ squad, mostly of orcs.
8th Company    Dunvegan’s Corsairs
   •   All the finest archers in the Fist are in this company, stationed in the tower.
9th Company    (Cyricists)
   •   Stationed at the third mine
10th Company (former Red Plumes)
   •   Stationed at the first mine.
11th Company (former Purple Dragons)
   •   Stationed at the second mine.
12th Company
   •   Led by Yin-Xu. A group of ogre scounts (?!) led by the relentless Yin-Xu. This
       company is known to have done a great deal of damage to The Circle, and is hunting
       the Wanderer
13th to 20th Companies
   •   Stationed in Anauroch
    •    13th     Stationed at Vaerlyth
    •    14th     Stationed at
21st to 25th Companies
    •    In training at the Citadel of the Raven
26th Company
    •    Became William Cormaeril’s Hearth Guard before the unmasking of Venisar
Other Considerations
    •    The Naug-Adar are Yarkul’s mage-lackeys. They command companies of the Fist
         and Garrison and are individually responsible for assigning ‘priests’ to their
         company. I believe there are at least ten of them.
    •    Brothers of the Black Fist. This is the militant wing of the Church of Iyachtu Xvim. It
         is led by the enigmatic Baron Drake, and I believe they are outside the chain of
         command in Dagger Falls.
Another note was also delivered from the spy in Dagger Falls that said the following;
         Eleint 9, 1372 DR
         Friends,
         The word in Dagger Falls is that the Elves of Cormanthor have marched upon the mine
         in the Dagger Hills and razed it to the ground.
         It is said that Captain Braehl and the entire 4th Garrison are slain, and that the elves
         subsequently marched all the slaves into a pit and burnt them alive.
         This seems unlikely to me (the elf-portion of this story, at any rate), but by all
         accounts the Dagger Hills mine is closed.
         Please confirm what you can.
         Also, today there was open fighting in the streets between the local Xvimites – the
         residents of the Brotherhood Tower (a knightly order of Xvimites) – and a bunch of
         Cyricists.
         Before the 6th Fist Company broke them up (their knees and arms included), I did
         hear one of the priests of Cyric yell “Your silly order is but a thumb on Cyric’s Hand.”
         This priest subsequently lost his head, and the knight completed his rebuttal by
         saying “Your treacherous god has not had all of us killed.”
         I suppose this is related to the battle of Anathar’s Dell, but I am unsure.
         It is exceedingly tense here right now.
Boregar took the note, and also delved into the woods to meet with his elven connection. He is given a
magical elven cloak as a gift, and learns about Yin Xu, the ogre mage that they fought in the desert. It seems
that Yin Xu is now stationed on the border region between the two dales, but Boregar suspects that Yin Xu
has been tasked with getting rid of the DE.
This same day sees the arrival of yet another embodiment of a Power. Two dark and sinister looking
travelers arrive in Shadow Dale. Although not known at the time (later cleared up by Kennyth) these two
fellows are servants of Entropy. They had come to the region seeking ‘Starmetal’ (which Kennyth later
explains to be metal forged from a rock that fell from the sky), and were also seeking the Beholders. They
will be heading for Dagger Falls soon, to set things to rights there.
On this day, however, William Cormaeril sets out on his expedition. He boldly claims that he will have
Dagger Falls liberated in but a few days. The council is re-ordered, and Amcathra expresses his frustration
with the events unfolding here. He implores the two factions of the church of Lathander to reunite, but they
will not. He is frustrated that one force was not ordered to march together upon Dagger Falls and that if the
forces of good continue to attack in bits and pieces, then that is how they shall end up. The council then
decides that more reasonable goals have to be pursued if the forces of good are to fight by inches. Thus, they
set the 3rd mine as their first objective. Sparrow had a visionary dream on the night of the vortex that he
reveals at this time. He believes that Mystra was guiding him to the 3rd mine to pick up the trail least cold.
The next day, the Entropists head to the church of Lathander to ask for aid in their expedition. None is
offered and the belligerent entropists defy Cassamar right in his own temple, seemingly impervious to his
command.
The DE sets out for the 3rd mine (in the Dagger Hills, where the tablets were found).
The next night they arrive at the mine and find it pretty much abandoned. Doing some exploration, they
find a pile of bones in a pit, but the night is getting long. That night, Maturin receives a visitation from
‘Torm’ in his dreams. A great pillar of skulls is building into the sky, and the death will only stop if he delves
into the pit to find his answerers. ‘Torm’ tells Maturin to follow the Tablets at all costs. This puts him at a
cross roads however, as following the tablets would put him further from his quest and would leave Dagger
Dale in the same condition it is in now.
The DE spends the early morning the next day exploring the great pit, and finds beneath the bones a pair of
great doors carved with beholder writing. Sparrow uses divinations and sees visions of 20 men (probably
followers of Cyric) lead into the pit, where they fight 4 beholder-like monsters. He also has a vision of two
huge tablets being taken from the mine. Any further divination beyond the doors is impossible, and they are
completely impervious to magic (likely made of the Starmetal that the two servants of Entropy were
seeking). They find they are unable to open them in any manner, and quickly decide it is time to free some
slaves.

Exodus
By the next night, the DE is close to the Chillholm mine. That night, Sparrow sneaks into the barracks and
cleanly assassinates the mage running the operation. Sparrow overhears that the Fist will be leaving in the
morning, but that the Garrison Captain there is upset about that, with all the orc sightings of late.
Early the next morning, 11th Company of Fist ride out of the mine, and shortly after, the DE strikes. In the
drawn out battle, the Garrison there is slain almost to the man, and 6 score of slaves are rescued. That night,
the exodus to Shadowdale begins. Amongst the slaves are found the long-lost Hob and Dalak’s brother
Balak.
The next day while the exodus marches overland to Shadowdale, Boregar and Dorian make a guerilla attack
the first mine at Rain Hill. They light off a powder keg in the barracks and destroy almost an entire company
of Fist before making their escape.
The exodus back to Shadowdale was not eventless. Maturin had his hands full tending to the failing health of
the liberated men, and despite his best care, many could just not survive the dangerous travel home. At one
point, the DE and the slaves were caught by the 3rd co. of Fist, and further losses were suffered before they
could repel the mounted mercenaries.
Towards the end of the Exodus, the group is accompanied by a large retinue of elves, to ensure their safe
delivery to Shadowdale. Boregar was informed that the Rain Hill mine had been recently abandoned on
Yarkul’s orders.
On the 21st of Eleint the exodus was complete, and over 100 men and women who were slaves in the mine
were delivered to Shadow Dale. The remainder of the Lambent Order of the Rose set up many medicine
tents, and worked around the clock to heal those from the mine.
On this day, it was also discovered that there were spies in Shadowdale who were quickly hanged.
Messages begin to go back and forth, and Dorian himself gets involved in this. Though none of the DE
besides Dorian knew about this letter, it would later resurface…

         Dragon my love,
         I think our little show at the Old Skull went off well. However, you should have sealed the deal before
         you let me go.
         Your searing black eyes have left me absolutely mesmerized. I fear that having had the beautiful honour
         of meeting my match (and better) has left me reconsidering my allegiances.
         I cannot in good conscience bring myself to do harm to one as gorgeous as yourself. No, alas, my heart is
         yours. My insides ‘burn’ with desire to see your radiant countenance, but just one more time.
         My dear, sweet, beautiful Dragon, it is for my love of you that I betray my side in this terrible war to
         bring you this one piece of news:
         Thagdul knows about the doors in the mine, and its contents. As I write this, he plots and positions to
         overthrow you and your father for control of Daggerdale.
         If you do not trust me, remember that my companions and I are well-connected with Thagdul and his
         Waterdeep agents.
         Protect yourself and your interests, my darling.
         With deepest love,
         Dorian of Shadowdale
The next day, a mage from Daggerdale came to deliver this message to Amacathra and the people of
Shadowdale;

         I, Yarkul, Lord of Daggerdale and ruler of Dagger Falls,
         Do fully and whole heartedly offer a treaty of non-aggression with the people
         of Daggerdale.
         For my part of this Treaty, I declare I will not hinder the travel of any
         citizen of Daggerdale, nor any other person or their property, traveling along
         the Trade Way, nor will I keep patrols on the Trade Way, nor will I keep
         patrols on the Trade Way beyond a distance of 10 mi. south of the
         Daggerdale Valley Border.
         I will also free any citizen enslaved in my Dale and allow them to go or stay
         as it suits them, and make what reparations, in coin, that I can to return them
         to their former mode of life.
         On the part of Shadowdale, it’s Lord and agents, we simply ask that it’s
         aggression towards Daggerdale cease.
         I will hold up my end until such time as I get a rejection from the Lord of
         Daggerdale, or until aggressive action is taken against Daggerdale by the
         above mentioned parties.
         I hope that we can make some arrangement to meet and discuss these affairs
         and begin to heal the wounds that my careless leadership has caused.
         I hope, in the long run, to develop a mutually beneficial relationship between
         our two Dales, in which citizens will travel and trade freely.
         These terms I offer truly and whole heartedly, along with an apology for the
         damage that my leadership caused in its budding year.
         Please send a written reply with my man.




Dagger Falls
The DE leaves for Dagger Falls with this mage, named Grimspite that day. Arriving in Dagger Falls the
next day, Boregar is surprised to see the place. It barely resembles the Dagger Falls he saw the year before.
A great wall has been constructed of solid stone all the way around, and a beautiful fortified bridge has been
built across the Tesh. From the bridge, many bodies hang, including the corpse of Randal Mourn, which has
a slight necromantic dweomer upon it.
Inside the new Easter Bailey, there are hundreds of slaves gathered. They look frightened and malnourished,
but they are not being abused. The DE decides to take the slaves out of town right away, and Maturin begins
the exodus of these people.
Sparrow stays behind in Dagger Falls, and that night he gets into a spell duel with Yarkul after sneaking into
the Tower. The next night he returns to investigate, but is magically bested by who he thinks may be
Thagdul. His had is cut off by one of the mage’s lackeys (who would later be identified as Venosar, only
after he is hunted down and killed unceremoniously).
Days later he would find himself waking up in a medicine tent in Shadowdale. He had a dream vision from
Mystra that he is to establish a church there. In the dream, he still has his hand. Waking up, he finds that his
hand is gone, but that a spell-fire blue spectre of it appears when he works the Weave.
It takes two days to get the freed slaves back to Shadowdale. They are added to the charge of the
overworked priests and retinue of Ilmater, and Maturin stays up all the night to help in treating them.
Boregar finds that a note from his man in Dagger Falls has reached him, a little late;
         Eleint 21, 1372 DR
         Friends,
         Good tidings! The bulk of the Fist has left Daggerdale. I confess that I did not
         personally see them leave, but I did see the remainder of the 2nd and 4th Companies ride
         in two nights ago, and the 3rd Company did not go on patrol as usual.
         It is morning, and I can find no evidence of any of the Fist Companies normally
         present, except the 5th and the 9th. The 9th is here still, in either disguise or in
         decommission, as they do not wear the Fist uniforms.
         Also, the 2nd Garrison marched in with all the slaves from that mine last night. The
         slaves are being held in the Eastern Bailey, and are being treated in an
         uncharacteristically kind manner.
         Congratulations on whatever it is you have done. I remain on active duty.
This day is a busy one. First of all, Dragon sneaks into town to meet with Dorian. She explains to him that
the Xvimites are quite pissed off at Sparrow, and that an attempt is going to be made on his life soon. She
explains that a demon, the former concubine of Yarkul, currently lives in Brotherhood Tower, and will be
coming for him some day soon. The two exchange their first kiss, and she departs.
Dorian rushes to locate Sparrow, who he learns was brought in late last night to the medicine tents by
unknown parties. Going to his tent, he learns that child delivered a message to the priest as soon as he woke
up, and that he met with a beautiful woman outside. Sparrow and the woman departed. He goes
immediately to The Old Skull Inn, and there meets with Gaebril for the first time. Many people in the
tavern saw Sparrow go upstairs with the beautiful woman, and Dorian rushes up the stairs and starts
knocking doors down. Gaebril follows, and soon they find a succubus over the prostrate form of Sparrow on
a bed. The two repel the demon, who flies away out the same broken skylight that Dragon herself escaped
from days ago. Sparrow comes to, recovering from the effects of powerful enchantments. He seems to be
intact, but his path now seems clear, and all are ready to depart for Dagger Falls.

Brotherhood Tower
That night, in the Old Skull, the DE is joined by Garrick who has just come in from the south road after a
long and brutal trek. He has with him the ranger Eiron, a gamekeeper for a powerful Waterdeep family that
has interests here in the Dales. Garrick has come to help his friend Boregar, and also brings in the Dark
Paladin, Gaebril who he has been friends with for years.
That very night, the DE sets out for Dagger Falls, with fire in their veins and their wills fortified to their
task. Not long out of Shadowdale, an elven runner delivers a message for Boregar that reads as follows;
         Eleint 25, 1372 DR
         Things are changing here very quickly now, and it is difficult to keep track of it all.
I was personally looking on yesterday when you and your friends marched those
hundreds of slaves out of the Eastern Bailey and south to freedom. My heart leapt for
the first time since I started this assignment, and later I wept, that our hard work has
finally brought about some good.
Well, there is more, though good or bad I cannot say. It is difficult these days, and
with this type of enemy…
First of all, early this morning, William Cormaeril addressed the town, declaring the
rule of the tyrant Yarkul to be at an end, and declaring himself the rightful ruler, by
birth, of this town. He announced that Yarkul had been killed by a Harper assassin. I
suppose this isn’t true, but whoever did that job has my nomination for certain.
At any rate, the garrison all donned new tabards of yellow, with a coat of arms of four
fields: one a purple dragon, one the Daggerdale coat, one with the Cormaeril sigil, and
the fourth quarter a tacky rising sun. The twenty or so men that surround Cormaeril
wear purple tabards of the same style.
Someone had to be expecting this to happen, as even the cleverest invoker would have
had a difficult time conjuring up a couple hundred bright yellow tabards in one day.
I heard a commoner in the tavern this evening remark that “at least the Zhents didn’t
make such a show of lording it up over the people.”
I have a source that sits on the council in the Tower who filled me in on some of the
political changes that William is going to instigate:
    1) No religious oppression and no tolerance of religious quarrels. The town will be
       paying to build a temple to Lathander as soon as a capable priest is found.
    2) Absolutely zero slavery. Slave ownership and trade is punishable by hanging,
       or at the end of a sword…
    3) Establish a trade route to Cormyr. What they plan to do about Tilverton, I do
       not know.
    4) An alliance between the Dales is also desired by William, as WELL as with the
       town of Yûlash. I don’t know how that can be done right now.
That is all I know about the political changes that Cormaeril wants to make.
A couple of other events here are worth mentioning as well.
Today at about noon, a bunch of the Garrison dressed in yellow tabards marched into
the temple of Bane and slaughtered the clergy to the last.
This came about after a man in the town council accused the Banite church of
retaining its slaves. I don’t know who it was that made this accusation, but it is an
interesting play; certainly all the Churches in town and likely the Tower itself still
have slaves in them. Nothing would be done about this if not for the publicizing of
this fact by a power-elite member.
At any rate, 24 more slaves became free men and women today, and the Church of
Bane in Dagger Falls is no more.
         Related to this, my informant on the Council tells me that he was told in confidence
         by William himself that he (William) is worried about the three demons living in
         Brotherhood Tower (the Xvimite knights’ building). He knows he lacks the strength to
         overcome the Baron and his remaining men, and this keeps the voice of Hatemaster
         Dragkul a very powerful one on the council. Certainly, we shall not see the people who
         are enslaved in that horrible place freed anytime soon and no accusations have been
         made against the Xvimites.
         I feel this is something we shall have to deal with ourselves.
         The Fist may not be out of the picture yet. Riders came in this morning from the
         north road, reporting that they had been ambushed by a group of ogres and hill giants
         while trying to reach Addas Babar. From the report, ten men were cut down in
         seconds, and only two managed to escape. From what I have been told of the tactics
         used in this encounter, it sounds like elements of the 5th and 12th Companies are
         watching the road to ensure that no one will be able to either follow the ‘Beholder
         Stones’, trade west of Dagger Falls, or both!
         Things appear to be getting better, but our war is far from over.
         That is all for now.
         X
This correspondence only stokes the fires burning deep within the core of these heroes, and they press on
through the night. A cold autumn wind and lightning storm chased them to Dagger Falls, but many of the
people of that town still claim to this day that it was the Liberators of Dagger Falls, our heroes, that brought
the storm with them.
The day dawned overcast and grim. Many of the locals claim that they woke up that morning to great crashes
of thunder and lightning. They claim that they knew something was going to happen that day, and almost all
good citizens report that they felt very anxious as the sky went from deep black to grey. Here is the report
of one man, nameless now, in history, who was witness to the events of that day.
         From my second floor apartment, I have windows facing south, east and north, and saw everything that day.
         I couldn’t sleep well that night. A great storm was in the south, and it was drawing nearer all night. It must
         have woken me about 4 hours before sunrise, and I was compelled to just watch it roll in. No rain came with the
         storm, but this was a cleansing storm like this joyless town had not seen in decades.
         As it drew nearer, it became more intense. I suppose it was the anger of the Liberators that drew the lightning
         and thunder. For as they drew to the gates, it seemed like the gates of hell were about to be kicked in, and a
         maelstrom about to unleash itself. I was nervous as hell just then. Another crash was heard, and I can’t say that
         it was thunder or the crashing of the gates at the Eastern Bailey, but that Liberators Storm blew right down the
         street. I ran from window to window. I ran to my eastern window to watch the gates, but a gust of wind blew me
         nearly back into my room, and the lightning struck again. There was thunder on the street, and I don’t know
         now if it was thunder from the clouds, or from the hooves of all the great horses that charged down that newly
         cobbled street, or both, but the Storm raced by my north window, and I could see the Heart of the Storm. Those
         men, the Liberators, flying right up to the Tower, and I knew the Gates of Hell had been kicked in, and the
         Maelstrom was upon us. I was scared, and I noticed shutters across the street being slammed shut. The few
         people on the street, citizen, soldier, man and woman, all fled and hid from the Maelstrom of the Liberators.
         I know not what transpired up at the Tower, but the Liberators soon came back into my field of view, north up
         the street, knocking at the doors of Brotherhood Tower. The Maelstrom was about to reach a crescendo, and I
         confess that I hid myself at that time. A violence unimaginable broke loose up the street, and all I could do, all
         any one could do, was just stay in their homes and pray to all the gods that were watching.
         Well, our prayers were heard. By the end of that day, the Maelstrom was over, and Baron Drake and the cult of
         Iyachtu Xvim was no more.
That morning, the DE went to the Tower, to talk with Cormaeril. He was loathe to grant them council, but
at length he heard them. They announced that they would attack Brotherhood tower, killing the Baron and
the three demons that dwelt inside. They sued for assistance from Cormaeril, but the coward offered none.
Alone, they marched to Brotherhood Tower.
The battle that ensued there that day was of legendary scale. The heroic details are many, and are outside the
scope of such a cursory review of the history of the Tablets. However, the outcome can merrily be reported.
Baron Drake was slain. The final blow was delivered by the excommunicated paladin of Ilmater, but it was
the efforts of Gaebril, and more importantly, Dorian of Sembia, Greatest Swordsman in the Realms, that it
was possible for Maturin to finish the Baron off. The clergy of that church were slain to the man, as was the
entire Brothers of the Black Fist order. The influence of Iyachtu Xvim had been completely cleansed from
Dagger Falls.
Early on the morning of the 28th of Eleint, two young men ride into Shadowdale from Dagger Falls, insisting
that they speak to a master Balak. “We bear missives from Lord Horgath!” Taking a brief respite from his
hearth, Balak receives a pair of letters and a sack of coins from one of the envoys before they head into the
town with more letters.
         Master Balak,
         Please read the enclosed letter to your brother Dalak, and ask young Timfast if
         he has been keeping my friend to the diet I prescribed. His ill temper
         notwithstanding, it is of paramount importance that Dalak be confined to oats and
         whey until he has a chance to recover from his recent injury. Remember – he is to
         be strictly (and I am deadly serious) forbidden alcohol – especially his gutshaker.
         Remind Brother Turan that your brother is to be given double (triple when
         necessary) dosages of Calishite laudanum should he become irritable. I have
         enclosed fifty Sembian crowns to cover the expenses that he will no doubt run up
         with the Order of the Lambent Rose, if he has not done so already.
         Additionally, I must apologize on the matter of my armour. Present
         circumstances prevent me from returning to Shadowdale for the foreseeable future,
         and I have recently come into a bounty of plate armour here in Dagger Falls.
         You may sell my armour at your convenience, and I trust that your profit will
         cover the cost of the repairs.
         You may also wish to inform Lord Amcathra of the events described in my
         letter to Dalak.
         What doesn’t kill you….
         Brother Grey
         Dear Dalak,
         It is nearly over, my friend. I trust that your health has improved under Brother
         Turan’s conscientious care and Timfast’s cookery. I don’t need to tell you… on
         second thought; I’ll remind you that the wounds you suffered at Freedom Hill
         were grievous indeed. Your life is still in the balance. This time next year we may
be able to share an ale together, but only if you follow Brother Turan’s
medications and keep your head. I intend to see you hale and healthy when my work
is done.
I wish to tell you that Baron Drake, the daemon we fought at Anathar’s Dell,
is dead, and the Church of Iyachtu Xvim in Dagger Falls is broken. If I get
ahead of myself, it is to spare you the suspense, which is not beneficial to you in
your condition. I will tell all in turn.
Following our return to Dagger Falls with the refugees from Yarkul’s regime,
one of the refugees told Lord Mourngrym about the destruction of the Church of
Bane in Dagger Falls by the forces of William Cormaeril.
At the same council meeting where the refugee’s story was heard, we learned that
the Zhents in Dagger Falls had come into possession of a primer for Harper
Code and a list of the names and descriptions of known Harpers. The Harper
agents Garrick Shining and the druid Aerin had set out only a week after us,
coming southeast through the Goblin Marches rather than through Anauroch with
their news. They also brought the unhappy news that only a handful of Harper
agents remained in the Western Realms.
Boregar, too, brought news. A Harper agent in Dagger Falls indicated to us
through a secret missive that the city was still rife with corruption and fear.
While Cormaeril pressed negligently on with reforms and grand plans to ally the
new Dagger Falls with Cormyr and Yûlash (Thagdul’s new stomping round),
daemons walked among the citizens, and the murderous cultists of the Godson
brazenly flouted the new laws, kidnapping unwary citizens and keeping them as
slaves.
With the mysterious slabs making their way ever deeper into the desert, Sparrow
sought the advice of the Lady Mystra, and divined that we would have no hope of
catching them before they reached Addis Babar, the largest of the Zhents’
Anauroch outposts. Dorian and I disagreed on the best course of action, but
with the council of Boregar, a man named Gaebril Tremalkin – a holy warrior of a
strange faith – and Garrick Shining, we decided to cleanse Dagger Falls once
and for all.
Following the council, we were to get some rest before heading north. I had
barely caught my first wink of sleep in 48 hours when Dorian burst into my tent
to tell me that Sparrow was both in grave danger, and was missing. I know not
how the warning came, but Sparrow was nowhere to be found. A hurried search
was organized, and with a presence of mind that still surprises me, I tracked
Sparrow to the Old Skull Inn, where patrolling guards had seen him head in the
company of a beautiful woman.
En masse, our party charged into the inn and up the stairwell only to find ourselves
confronting an obviously ensorcelled member of Shadowdale’s emergency militia.
Our friend Dorian, hardly the most level-headed of men these days, failed
immediately and spectacularly in his attempts at negotiation and began to scuffle
with the man. I ran downstairs with Boregar to enlist the aid of any spellcasters
who considered themselves decent enough to come to our aid and I am surprised
and sorry to say that only one soul in the bar saw his duty clearly. By the time we
had reclimbed the stairs, Gaebril and Dorian had forced their way through the door
that Sparrow and the woman were sequestered behind. I came to the doorway just
in time to see her figure sprout wings, let out an inhuman screech, and launch
upwards, smashing through the skylight.
While Garrick fired an arrow up at the quickly diminishing beast, I bade the
spellcaster dispel whatever magicks may have lain upon Sparrow. But even as his
eyes cleared, I could see that his movements were growing sluggish. I suspected
that the foul thing had poisoned him in some way. When I asked him, he indicated
that it was so. I quickly jammed my index finger down his throat to induce
vomiting, and, satisfied that he was safe, helped him down to the bar. By now, the
inn had emptied to watch whatever succubus or harpy had been preying on our friend
fly quickly north, towards Dagger Falls.
Our course was clearer than ever.
At noon, we set out for Dagger Falls, arriving the following morning. Sparrow
was afraid that he would be recognized at the gate, but whatever forces had issued
the capital interdiction against his return had evidently not passed the order on.
(Happily, Sparrow’s spellcasting ability has not diminished with the loss of his
hand – whenever he attempts to cast a spell, a phantasmal hand of blue light
appears to work the somatics – truly a sign of his sanctity, at least in Mystra’s
eyes.) Passing through the gate relatively unmolested, we journeyed to a pub
outside the north gate where we were to meet a contact of Boregar’s. Why we
must always seek out the houses of sin, I know not. Would it be too much to ask
to meet a contact in a house of worship once in a while?). I must admit that
certain among us were not very circumspect about our inquiries, which may have
had the dire consequences that I will write of soon.
Investigating the town, we confirmed that though Yarkul had fallen, the evil grip
of the Zhent churches still held sway. Boregar, as the official ambassador of
Shadowdale, sought an audience with Lord Cormaeril. Though he could not
command the sacrifice of his guardsmen, and would not allow any volunteers, he
indicated that, would we take up arms with the Xvimites, his forces would not
intervene. I will tell you that I did not like this petty little man. Not only did he
force his own cowardice on his men, who could not have refused duty’s clarion call
to rid the Dales of the Godson’s evil taint, but he played us against the Xvimites
without committing himself to either hand, seeking, no doubt, to ingratiate himself
with whichever force proved victorious. A Cormyrean by birth, he seems every
inch the bastard son of a Sembian and a Zhent.
With Cormaeril’s pusillanimous blessing, we waited while Sparrow did
reconnaissance on the Xvmiite temple. It was locked solid, without windows,
having only metal doors, and being completely encapsulated with both stone and
metal, it seemed impregnable. Before long, Xvimite priests appeared as from
nowhere and began to work their accursed spells against us. Immediately, Dorian
and Boregar charged, while Garrick, Gaebril and I put our backs to one another
and began to face off against the companies of armsmen that came at us from either
direction. With his battery of spells, Sparrrow ran an impressively judicious
guerrilla campaign as support.
For over an hour we fought, with darkness, paralysis and the curse of the Godson
laying on us like a foul haze. But we would not tire, and our courage did not flag.
Just when we thought the infidels might break, a gong sounded, and the remains of
the force let out a hoarse cheer as the terrible Baron Drake strode from the
opening doors of the temple, flanked by a coterie of experienced looking men.
Without hesitation, Sparrow threw a fireball into their midst.
Horribly burned, all but the Baron retreated into the dark fastness of the temple,
shutting the doors in front of them. Though Garrick, Gaebril and I were still
engaged with the warriors, Dorian rose to the challenge of fighting Drake, his
confident swagger unchecked by the cambion’s foul presence. My memories of the
battle are hazy, but I know that Garrick broke from our circle to attack the Baron
and was cut down, though whether by the Baron or a craven armsman I know not.
Sparrow barely managed to bandage his wounds in time to save his life. Were he
not with me now, I should have said he died.
Soon, Gaebril too broke from the fight and confronted the cambion with Dorian. I
could see nothing from where I stood, all being concealed by the foul thing’s
darkness, but when the light returned, Gaebril had fallen and Dorian danced with
the daemon alone.
By now, we fought on the strength of our potions alone.
For what seemed an eternity, I was facing off against three trained warriors,
Boregar with another two and Dorian seemed at an impasse with Drake. Then,
in a critical instant, the Baron lunged at Dorian and overcorrected. Dorian’s
returning blow nearly cleaved off the daemon’s arm. Seeing our chance, I broke
from the circle and took a few short steps towards the prostrate thing to bring
down Raven’s Tooth on its black and battered head, cleaving the foul skull in
twain. (Though I meant to offense, Dorian has been quite curt with me since the
decapitation. I get the sense that I robbed him of ‘the glory’ of the moment, in
what would have been his finest hour. I cannot honestly comprehend how
someone’s code of honour would see necessary bloodshed as glory, and not as a
hideous last resort. But then, I suppose you are hardly a sympathetic audience for
my point of view).
With a look of shock on its face, the daemon’s body collapsed. Immediately, its
armour and weapon began to bubble and sublimate into a foul mist. The remaining
Xvimites broke, hard. But I do not think they escaped. While we began to take
stock of the situation, Boregar brought Drake’s head to Cormaeril, who seemed
overawed. People began to float back into the streets to marvel at what we had
         done, and the guard quickly organized to finish the job and force open the gates of
         the temple. At length it was done.
         Never have I been involved in so fierce or lengthy a battle, and never again do I
         want to see so much bloodshed. I have a new appreciation for the stalwartness of
         your kind, my friend, and a new sadness in knowing what sort of life you live.
         May Ilmater let my blessing upon you be heard. We managed to rescue the men
         who had been enslaved in the bowels of the temple, and through no small degree of
         argument with that bastard Cormaeril, I was able to commandeer some supplies
         and care for their upkeep, at Dagger Falls’ expense.
         Unfortunately, early in the afternoon, we discovered the fresh corpse of Boregar’s
         contact. Evidently, he had been murdered while the battle raged. Dagger Falls is
         still without true peace, and I fear it will never be.
         As for our current situation, I will be as informative as I can. Dorian has left
         us, and I do not know if he will return. His plans for the future have varied
         erratically over the last week. I hope to see him again, but will leave it to Tymora
         to see that our paths cross again. Gaebril and I, and perhaps Boregar, are heading
         into the desert in pursuit of the slabs, and I intend to hunt Grandfather to fulfill
         my pledge to Ilmater. Garrick’s plans are uncertain, though I expect he will
         accompany us. As for Sparrow, he has decided to reconsecrate the Xvimite
         cultists’ den and build a temple to Mystra and Lathander in partnership with
         Cormaeril. I pray that they are successful.
         We have accomplished so much in the last months, and yet so much more is before
         us. Of the four of us who crossed the desert together, I am comforted that you, at
         least, have achieved peace, though at great cost. I wish you and Balak all the best
         and bid you take care. Boregar and Dorian have much to deal with, and I cannot
         escape the feeling that our destinies are still linked with Dagger Falls and
         Anauroch. For myself, doubt plagues me like a shadow, stronger now that the
         path seems clear. I had another vision from Torm yesterve, urging me again into
         the desert, away from Dagger Falls. There is yet to be a reckoning.
         Ilmater guides us all,
         Maturin. Horgath
This correspondence to the retired battle rager is probably the best account of the final conflict between
Drake and his Order, and the DE.
Later that day, though Dorian became enraged at the lengthy decision-making process, and rode off to
pursue the tablets. Not far up the north road, he encountered the two Entropists who had just killed a mage-
messenger. They convinced him that his best path would be the path that his comrades chose, and his senses
were returned. He rode hard to his new home that night, and spent the night in the ruined castle. Dragon
had been following him the whole time, and the two shared their first night together in those ruins. The next
day, they departed. Dragon was determined to return to the west by way of the south road, and Dorian was
going to return with his friends to Dagger Falls.
The Temple of Cyric
Though a vision from ‘Torm’ had been given to Maturin, the DE could not be convinced to leave Dagger
Falls. They hotly debated the issue of leaving, to pursue the stones, but many were unhappy with the
situation in Dagger Falls still. An assassin had killed Boregar’s man, meaning that there was still a
treacherous puppet master somewhere in the council of that politically-metamorphing town. Finally, it was
decided that they would stay and clean up this town for good, or ill.
A council was called in the Tower. All major players in the Dale were present, and many things were
discussed. The nature of the council was changed to include Sparrow and Rewel Thunderstorm, and plans
were made to turn Brotherhood tower into a joint place of worship for Lathander and Mystra. Further,
Dorian had purchased Castle Daggerdale and a small barony that surrounded it, and also landed himself title
and a position on the council.
Tempers eventually ran hot at the council, as Cormaeril would not give in to any requests by the DE or
other good parties at that council, and finally a Gaebril and Sparrow had seen enough. The two began a brief
but effective inquisition at that very council table, and an invisible man was discovered behind Cormaeril.
He was subsequently attacked and chased, and through the remarkable, some would say miraculous, efforts
of the Harper Garrick, the spy was captured and interrogated. This man turned out to be a Zhent spy named
Venosar. Much was revealed by the interrogation and examination of the journal of this rogue-mage spy.
The following details were uncovered;
    •    Yarkul was everyone’s puppet
    •    Venosar had been a mediary between Thagdul and Cormaeril for months
    •    Morgul doesn’t know anything about beholders; he’s been here for 6 months
    •    Thagdul was an ally, and Yarkul was his vassal
    •    Thagdul has been active in Yulash for at least 3 months.
    •    Cyric was influencing the Lathanderites directly – Cassamar
    •    Amaretta (the succubus) – conjured by someone, Yarkul may have had some power over her, but
         her presence pre-dated Yarkul
    •    Venosar was ‘our man on the council’. He was a feared assassin, sent to replace Yarkul. He
         charmed Cormaeril in the first place, and arranged the removal of the Banites and Xvimites
    •    Cyric does not appear to like the idea of the tablets going west.
    •    The number of demons reported to be in Brotherhood Tower was told to all the members of the
         council, in confidence, though each member was told a different number. This is how Boregar’s
         man was discovered and subsequently executed.
Another important find in the bed chamber of Venosar was the fated longsword of Morgan Lathkule. This
blade had found it’s way here, all the way from Waterdeep, with Yarkul, who had kept it as a token of his
defeat over Raven. The blade was taken by Dorian, but ownership of this legendary weapon did not end
there.
With this information, the path the DE would take became clear to all except Dorian. They would rid the
town of the Cyricists when they were healed.
All the healing resources of the Tower were mustered, and after the DE had rested for about 10 hours, they
attacked the fortified church of Cyric in Dagger Falls.
This was another battle of epic proportions. The DE, accompanied by the now clear-thinking Cormaeril and
his elite hearth guard, staged a three-pronged attack upon the vile lair of these villains. During the attack, it
was learned that Morgul the Vigilant Talon had been amassing an undead army. The ranks of many
species of undead bolstered the ranks of priests and warriors of the Baneson servants, and the battle was
difficult. In the end, though, the Church of Cyric was also completely destroyed, and the Heroes were
praised with great praise.
Harvestide
By the time things were cooled off in Dagger Falls, Harvestide was upon the Dales. Winter was coming, and
it the DE were way past overdue to leave. All signs indicated that the Tablets were weeks ahead of the DE,
but they planned on catching them anyway.
Dagger Falls had become a place of peace again in those days. Rewel Thunderstorm, though having made
peace with Cassamar, still begat the church of Lathander in Dagger Falls. Sparrow stayed in this town too, to
do his goddess’ bidding, and opened his temple in conjunction with the new Morning Lord’s Temple. The
three evil faiths were not heard from or seen in Dagger Falls for many years to come, and peace was upon
the place.
But Dagger Falls is doomed to have some turmoil. In the wake of the Paladin of Shar, a cult of Shar
blossomed in this town. The oratory of Gaebril, given in the Eastern Bailey, convinced many to join this
faith, to help them enjoy the new lives they had, and to forget the evils of the past.
An oratory given by Maturin that very day also spawned an intense, but briefly lived following of Ilmater. To
this day, the faiths of Lathander and Shar are the most influential in the Dale and in the town itself. The
temple to Mystra is also a very busy place, and it is well known that this attraction brings many practitioners
of magic, and their money, to the town every year.

The Road West
Though the first Harvestide celebrations in over 20 years were being held in Dagger Falls, the DE stayed
only until after breakfast of the 2nd of Marpenoth. They took to the road, traveling as light and as fast as they
could. They intended to catch the Beholder Tablets, but they would not do so this winter.
Less than half a day out of Dagger Falls, the DE was ambushed by the 5th Co. of Fist, Gumbottom’s Guard.
This company of 10 hill giants was lead by Yin Xu at this point, and his leadership nearly proved effective
enough to turn back the DE. Several were hurt badly, but they still managed to defeat enough of the giants
to route them. Clearly, the road was still being watched by the forces of the Beholders, and the journey
would not be easy.
A few days after that, the DE was nearly exterminated. They encountered beholder-kin upon the road. A
large, tree-like beholder attempted to have the DE turn back by using magical suggestions, but this proved
ineffective. A battle broke out, and 4 directors joined the battle to protect the overseer tree-beholder
that tried to end the encounter peacefully. The DE was overcome by these foes, and if were not for the
intervention of the Entropists, all would have been lost.
These two men, now introduced as Amon and Zuth, of Chessenta, explain that they were pursing the
Tablets, but realized they were not suited to travel in the desert. They turned back, hoping to find a way
West through the dangerous lands to the south. The two men had a long discussion with the DE. They ex-
plained that Zantiid and Xulla were simply ‘second rank’ beholders. They knew of the staves, but little about
them. The two seemed most determined to get to the Tablets, but did not state their purpose entirely.

Addas Babar
The DE was soon in the desert again. Just as the badlands begin to give way to sands and dunes, one finds the
citadel of Addas Babar, perched high upon an island of rock overlooking the first oasis on the long road
through the desert.
The DE decided they would not circumnavigate the outposts on this journey. Boregar was on a quest to put
to rights all those wrongs he had left behind, and the DE would have been without him if they would not
fight his battle with him.
The DE made short work of this fortress, and left it a grave of Zhents and a ruin.
Bhaerlith
Bhaerlith was a difficult conquest, given the heavily fortified and geographical nature of the place. At length,
however, the DE were victorious, and the fortress was liberated. Of the bounty found in this fortress, the
Gond Pistola was recovered and returned to Boregar. Many other powerful tools of war were also
recovered.
The many slaves that were there stayed on. Many were devout followers of Ilmater, and though Maturin had
clearly been excommunicated, they took it as a sign that they too should isolate themselves and endure the
lonesome desert.
To this day, Bhaerlith is an abbey dedicated to Ilmater. The wandering priest Shildevan came to the abbey
not long after the DE had departed, and assumed leadership of the flock.

Olomaa
Travel through the desert was made somewhat easier this time around, though Boregar worried that they
would not make it out before winter. He explained that even the native nomads of this land brave the
underdark during winter, rather than face the harshness of Anauroch’s cold season. They DE was making
good time, though, as they were more effectively supplied after each fortress they sacked.
At Olomaa, they found that they did not get there in time to sack the place. The fortress was in ruins, and
not a soul could be found upon initial arrival. Boregar investigates further, and finds that a lone priest of
Cyric is living there. This man, Ful’Zan, explains that a beholder and the Fist came through and killed
everyone. This settlement had been the desert bastion of Cyric, but the temple is now in ruins, and the sole
survivor of the place has resorted, not with much loathe, to eating the flesh of the dead flock of Cyricists
there.
When Maturin shows up, Ful’Zan shrieks and hisses, and says “You didn’t leave when you were told! Now
you can’t catch it!” Apparently, this crazed priest knew something of Maturin, but the Boregar attempts to
subdue the man, and he makes off into the desert. His trail could not be followed.
The DE stays on here for a day to burn bodies and desecrate the remains of the Temple. They ponder the
visions from ‘Torm’ that were visited upon Maturin back in Dagger Falls, and conclude that Cyric was
posing as Torm again (the ‘Fool Knight’ being his favourite god to impersonate) to motivate the DE to
follow the Tablets, and leave the church of Cyric in Dagger Falls alone.

Maturin and the Lion
Many weeks later, the DE arrives back at Vaerthyl. As Boregar had feared, winter had come and the DE
where trapped. They prepare the ruined keep there for their occupation throughout the winter.
The winter is cruel in Anauroch, to say the least. The remaining five men of the DE train hard all winter, but
on New Year’s Eve, the time of reckoning for Maturin and Grandfather is nigh.
Late that night, as the full moon broke through the relentless clouds and snows, and the eye of
Muir’Quaggoth was seen by the Grey Knight in its radiance. A great roar is heard off in the desert
somewhere, and the DE do what they can to equip Maturin for the fight. Not long after, Grandfather lets
out a roar just outside the doors. Maturin takes the floor, braced for battle, while the other 4 wait at the
stairs. They know that this can be a fight between Grandfather and Maturin, alone.
Grandfather crashes open the door and stands on the threshold while Maturin calls out the beast;
         Grandfather!
         In the name of Ilmater, I call you out and command you to lie down before me.
         I command you to repent your wrongs and forsake your evil god.
         I accuse you, scion of Muir-Quaggoth, of carnage immeasurable.
         Your legacy of pain and suffering lies heavily upon Faerun.
         I am here to cleanse it.
         In the name of Ilmater;
         In the name of those who have suffered;
         In the name of all that is holy and good;
         Repent and prepare to be destroyed.
Grandfather growled low and strode into the room. The two god-fated combatants stared at each other for a
moment, and then the Lion sprung! From the outset, things looked horrible for Maturin. He was knocked
over and pinned right away, the giant lycanthrope poised above his prone form. The Lion bit deep into the
knight, and tore and tore. All the while, however, Maturin was pulling the beast onto his silver-plated spikes
upon his breast plate, and making what attacks were allowed him with the Lathkule blade. The blade was
thrust up through the beasts belly, and it gave a great roar before delivering one final great bite to the knight.
It tore deep into his neck, and then both combatants ceased their struggle.
Maturin was hardly perceptible from beneath the giant beast, and neither were moving. When his
companions came to his side however, and hefted the heavy monster off of him, they found him still
breathing. Though he was covered in blood, both from himself and the Lion, they could make out the shape
of a gray tear under the Knights right eye. The knight breathed, and his companions helped him to his knees.
Maturin stayed kneeling for what seemed like an eternity. His breathing caused him to heave, and he
steadied himself with the bloodied blade that had slain the huge Lion that lay at his side.
He looked up, and the grey tear sparkled for just a moment, and Maturin nodded wearily. At that moment,
a scraping was heard at the wind-assaulted door. Warburden had returned, and stepped in to nuzzle his
masters bloodied head. With what strength he had, the weary knight raised one bloodied gauntlet to stroke
the beasts great face in silence, while his companions, silent as well, looked on.
Dorian was heard to whisper “Ilmater be praised”.
This final portion of the Daggerdale Expedition is most eloquently told through the words of the Grey
Knight, found in his memoirs years after these events;


                                                      Ilmater's boon 'neath the green-eyed moon
                                                      Did tame the were-lion's wroth;
                                                      The desert trails had their secret tales
                                                      For the sons of Muir-Quagoth;
                                                      But a Damaran knight is an outlandish sight,
                                                      To rise from Anauroch's haze
                                                      And a night of fear in the Rogue Dragon Year
                                                      Was Grandfather's end of days.
‘The Narrative’, will be forthcoming Friday morning. How the various adventurers, heroes, opportunists,
and other parties involved in the story of the Beholder Tablets, spent the winter of ’72-73 shall be detailed,
and our heroes shall emerge from the sand, and be delivered to the doorstep of the City of Splendours, to
finish this tale in the 5th and final chapter…



                          Heroes of the Realms
Appendices
Wererats of Waterdeep
The City of Splendors is heavily populated by wererats of all sorts. Because of the nature of the PC’s dealings in the
City, they find themselves mixing with these lycanthropes frequently. The information compiled below is a summary of
knowledge provided by Morgan Lathkule and Nero.
The wererats of the City are organized into 4 groups. Three of these are the clans, and the fourth are the independents
of the city. Each of the four groups is represented by a ruling body called the Council of Four.
Gentletooth Clan. This clan is made up of upper-class citizens in the city (the Umbrusk family, for example).
Membership in this clan is entirely hereditary. They are made up only of natural-born wererats, and would never
consider an ‘infected’ wererat for the clan. This clan advocates restriction of the spread of lycanthropy. The other two
clans resent the Gentletooth, whom they call ‘cleanbloods’ and ‘silverbreeds’ with much disdain. The Gentletooth are
known to venerate Selune. The head of the Clan is Halam Umbrusk, the patriarch of that family, and the oldest
lycanthrope in the city. This clan has many shady dealings, but they do not advocate senseless killing or wanton
destruction. The clan has a vested interest in the conservative circles of the city and thus is more law-abiding. The
Umbrusk family has been involved in the slave trade until fairly recently, however.
The progenitor of the Gentletooth Clan was Gentletooth Umbrusk. This lycanthrope established the family over 600
years ago in the City.
Ebenezer Clan. This clan is made up mostly of middle class citizens. They are a mixture of born and infected
wererats, though their leadership comes exclusively from the true born members of the Clan. Many members of this
clan aspire to be accepted into Gentletooth Clan, but this rarely happens. Many members of this clan are law abiding
citizens with jobs or businesses. Many are involved in the underworld, however. Indeed, it is Ebenezer Clan that turns
the wheels of the wererat infrastructure of the city. They act as the mediaries between the surface and the underworld.
The head of the clan is a lycanthrope known only as Mercutio. Mercutio is a faceless rogue who is very well
connected to the underworld of the City. He is a major figure in the criminal underworld, but has been very successful
in keeping himself hidden. He is said to wear a mask at the Council of Four, and members of the other organizations
suspect that there may be more than one lycanthrope representing Ebenezer at this council. This clan mostly maintains
the status quo, as dictated by the Gentletooth, but some members have goals for expansion of the Clan and for wererats
in the City in general.
Ebenezer Clan venerates a number of gods. Those with aspirations of social climbing venerate Selune. Many members
of this Clan belong to the Cabal of Talona, based in the Rat Hills outside the city. Muir’Quaggoth is also worshipped,
and increasingly so.
The progenitor of the Clan was a servitor of the Umbrusk family who served Gentletooth Umbrusk himself. The
Gentletooth Clan maintains that Ebenezer was infected by Gentletooth. The Ebenezer Clan maintains that he was a
true-born who chose to help the ancient progenitor of the Gentletooth Clan and Umbrusk Family.
Blacktail Clan. When the word ‘wererat’ is mentioned, the Blacktail Clan rats are those that come to mind. These
are the filthy creatures that dwell below the City and those that populate the Rat Hills. These are an evil lot who are
happy to slay surface dwellers, or gather more to their flock through infection. The Blacktail Clan have shaky alliances
with many secret organizations in the city, including the Blades of Korombos, and Company Aldebarran by extension.
The Clan is headed by the upper levels of the Cabal of Talona. The head of this organization, and of the Clan, is a
wererat known as Malignous. Malignous only comes into the City for the Council of Four, and often sends others in his
stead. He has been known to send the BOK member Malagent to council in the past.
