Greengrass
Rumour 1:
An emerging Thieves' Guild
the Shadow Thieves
Rumour 2
A demon called
Magebane
is roaming the streets of Waterdeep, coinciding with an increasingly organized anti-magic sentiment among the Waterdhavian populace.
Rumour 3
Contact between Waterdeep and the elves of Evermeet has been severed
The only knowledge I have of the Company of the Red Herring concerns the months between Greengrass and Harvestide of 1371.  Beyond that, I would be surprised to learn they amounted to much.
From what I understand, the company centred on a Dockward orphan that had more than a few run-ins with the Watch in my patrol days.  Garth Shanks was always something of a character, as I recall, getting up to mischief with Szarah Mudge
s boy, Tomas, when he wasn
t cutting purses in the markets.  He was always one to put on a show whenever anyone the authorities had any questions.  Eventually, he cleaned himself up enough to land a job at a respectable, if not strictly legitimate, shop as an errand boy.  Do you know Serpentil
s Books and Folios?  Jannaxil Serpentil sells maps and books, usually authentic, to a fairly large customer base, but most of his business is on the shady side, dealing intelligence and worse to the usual suspects.  From what I understand, Serpentil was dealing fairly often in those days with Quevin Dalael, in his surface guise, of course.
I imagine they were circumspect enough that Shanks never got beyond the usual suspicions that anyone of at least moderate intelligence would have dealing with Serpentil. One of Shanks
first jobs for Serpentil was connected to this Dalael business
delivery
to Castleward.  The package turned out to be an incendiary device of some kind, and I hear the hit really got under the skin of one of the Zhent traders who were active in the city at that time.
The company came together following that business. Ildar Orsabbas was a fop who owned a Seaward trade outlet called Orsabbas
Fine Imports.  The idiot fancied himself a bit of a crime boss, calling himself the
Duke of Darkness
or something of the like.  We were on to his operation, but he more often than not pointed us in the direction of more useful quarry.  At any rate, he had a pet elf named Ellyth, an ambitious piece, if misguided in her choice of mentors.  Her uncle was a good man, for an elf, a bladesinger named Gilthanas, but I hear he came to a bad end not too long after that.
I understand that she was there on Greengrass eve, when Orsabbas met the rogue Teskul for dinner.  Orsabbas was selling Teskul some information on a shipment of swords enchanted by a Banite cult in Luskan.  The shipment was moving out of the Helmfast warehouse in Dockward Greengrass night
the swords, in two crates packed with sugar cane, were going to move after some kind of distraction. Teskul said he couldn
t do much with the information, but Ellyth was sharp enough to pick up on their conversation.  Ellyth had heard a bit about the Helmfasts from one of her
colleagues
a bit named Ezrelda, and like the rookie she was, she came right out and offered to put together some people for the job.  That
s really where it all started.  Ellyth got in touch with her crazy cousin Esperel, Esperel got a hold of Garth, and Garth brought in Tomas.
What Orsabbas didn
t know, and Ellyth didn
t find out until too late, was that it was Teskul
s boss that the shipment was going to.  Beshaba
s just Tymora on a bad day.
Teskul
s boss had arranged the shipment with Chuldan Helmfast, who managed the warehouse for his family. Helmstar
s is usually pretty well looked after, good light, guards on the roof, etc.  Won
t keep out the mages, but it
s good enough to stop hoods like Garth and Esperel. The logs indicate that the cargo was going to loaded on to The Misty, a privately-owned cog in the harbour.
.  Concealed within the sugar cane are 8 enchanted (in a less than legal fashion) blades.
Not considering stealing from smugglers and thieves a crime, a plan is hatched by Ellyth, Esperel, Garth, Tomas and a reluctant Gilthanas to distract or remove the men guarding the shipment and make a switch.  Tomas is able to procure a wagon and mules, as well as crates to make the switch, and at sundown, the men are all knocked unconscious, the switch is made, and the wagon is brought back to Garth
s house.
Esperel climbs up to the roof to keep watch.  AS he pokes his head over the eaves, a voice yells
Stop
.  Esperel shakes off some momentary sluggishness (probably a spell) and charges onto the roof in order to knock over a man standing up there.  However, with seemingly superhuman strength, the se figure beast Esperel unconscious and somehow saves him from falling off of the roof.
Downstairs, the door bursts open and the tall dark man from Jannaxil
s office strides in with Teskul and for goons.  He accuses the party of stealing from him and his men recover the blades from the crates.  Accusing each one of us with very detailed knowledge of who we are, he insists that we owe him a favour and brooks no argument.  Ellyth sees something scary drift by outside (Figure 1)
The man reveals himself as Thagdul, head of Company Drurginz, an outwardly legitimate trading company, who most likely runs smuggled goods through Skullport, the City Beneath the City.  Company Drurginz is at odds with a rival company, Company Ersgul, run by Yarkul.  Both of these companies have extensive dealings with the Moonsea region.
Rumour 4
An evil mage, variously known as Ravenblight and Doomface has been killing once a month at the full moon with a chilling touch over a period beginning 3 years ago until a few months previous to Greengrass.  This coincides almost exactly with the period during which Tomas was away from Waterdeep.
Mirtul 10 (one week later)
Rumour 5
An evil wizard named Halaster Blackcloack is the Keeper of the Undermountain, and sponsors illicit trade through the region beneath Waterdeep (maybe Skullport, too).
Rumour 6
Healing potions can be purchased pretty reasonably from Kappiyan Flurmastyr (though one wouldn
t want to bug him too often)
Jafar, a Calishite scholar (or so he says) newly arrived in Waterdeep, has taken up residence with Garth in his lodgings in Dockward.  He joins the Watchful order of Magists and Protectors (Guild 42
Castleward 15), sponsored by Orilar Thanas, and is given duties on the city firewatch.
Esperel joins the Finesmith
s Guild (Guild 36
DW ), sponsored by the guildmaster Helthor Desmond.
A week after the previous encounter with Thagdul, Ellyth, Esperel, Garth and Tomas each receive a message from the dark gentleman, inviting them to dinner at the Thirsty Throat Tavern.  Gilthanas, it is assumed, has found some other way to repay Thagdul.  Jafar is summoned as well, having had other dealings with Thagdul in the south, and owing a favour to him from earlier.  Thagdul wants the party to burn down a house in Northward, and offers us any loot we can take as incentive, as well as the possibility of clearing our debt.  Ellyth suspects that Thagdul may be a dragon.
After dinner, Thagdul directs us to a large four-story building in Northward, to the block bounded by Sulmor St., the High Road, Delzorin St. and Vhezoar St.  He tells us that a diversion will be engineered at 22h30 to keep the firewatch and guard busy so we can make good our escape once we
ve set the fires.  He tells us a crate awaits us in the nearby sewer entrance.
Rumour 7
Crimes Against the Lords (impersonation, forgery or treason) are punishable by death.  Crimes Against the city (bribery, etc.) are punished by death or exile..
Ellyth spends the intermediate time at the nearby Gentle Mermaid, a famous gambling house.  There she meets Arsten Thunderstaff II and he succumbs to her charms.  He gives her a cut of his winnings (50 gp) but she is unable to find out any information or anything of use.
Meanwhile, Esperel and Garth case out the joint while Tomas runs home to put on armour.  The house seems to be 4 stories high, and movement is detectable on 2 of the 3 levels.  When Tomas returns, he heads into the sewers with Garth and Esperel and discovers a box with five detonators and directions.  Esperel finds several secret doors, and the rest of the party enters the sewers.  It is now time to move.  Several drow statues with seemingly deteriorating enchantments are found, and a possible entrance to the building is uncovered.  As it is opened, however, the party is attacked from the rear by two watchspiders, and three figure come in from the other room
at least one seems to be a drow.
See Map 1
Dalael Safehouse
One spider is dispatched by Tomas, though he suffers a bite from the spider
s fangs.  He runs to help Garth, who is faring less well against the other spider.  Meanwhile, two dodge characters have made it through the door and have confronted Ellyth and Jafar.  Esperel runs to shut the door and block it against the third figure (the drow?), while one of the figures hoots Tomas in the leg with a crossbow bolt.  Tomas dispatches the second spider and moves in with Garth to aid their comrades.  Seeing that they stand little chance  of survival, the two opponents (men) surrender and are knocked out by Tomas and Esperel.  Ellyth and Jafar search them and tie them up, discovering
and exotic dagger (Jafar identifies a drow enchantment upon it)
2 hand crossbows
Esperel tries the door, but finds it blocked.  Tomas bashes it open and runs into a storeroom of crates, kegs and tuns.  Grabbing a scroll as he looks around, he motions for Garth and Esperel to follow, then sets off in pursuit of the third figure.  The three capitalize on Tomas
thick neck to bash through a second door into a room full of the remains of a jade spider statues.  A figure is just darting out the other door.  Garth stays to inspect the room while Tomas bashes through the third door, heading up a flight of stairs with Esperel in hot pursuit.  Tomas dashes ahead, but quickly turns around, upon encountering a roomful of men in the entrance.  He and Esperel confront a figure that came down the staircase behind them.  While Tomas is setting one of the charges, Esperel chases the figure upstairs, and Garth emerges from the cellar.  The three of them head up the staircase, Garth taking the second floor, Esperel the third and Tomas continuing to the fourth.
Garth sets his charge and, after a cursory examination of the second floor, dives out the window to a tree and makes his way down.  Esperel searches the floor and finds two porcelain cases, but suspects magic when he notices strange runes on the case and the relatively good condition of the cases compared to the rest of the ransacked floor. He sets and lights his charge, then runs down the staircase.  Tomas finds the thief he has been chasing pounding on a door calling the name Vuldan.  Tomas chases him around the corner, then hears a voice from behind asking what is going on.  Turning around, he sees a beholder, who politely requests that there not be any violence.  Tomas, fear-struck, warns Vuldan of the impending immolations, to which Vuldan reacts nonchalantly then drifts back around the corner.  Tomas returns to his pursuit, then finds that the thief has headed out to the balcony.  Tomas decides to let him go, sets the charge and returns to the staircase.  He calls for his companion, but they are nowhere to be found.
Upon reaching the storeroom, he finds everyone but Garth, grabs a crate and calls the group into the sewer and out of danger.  The party regroups outside, and
Tomas goes home for a cart to bring the haul out of Northward.  In addition to what was found above, the company found:
2 stone drow heads (identified by Jafar as former Golem heads)
88 lbs. of jade (lightly enchanted
formerly a golem)
scroll in drow writing, sealed by Sigil 2
40 books
Cormyrian writings
Selections from the Draconomicon on Khaldun, the Deeping Dragon, with annotations in drow
2 drow journals.
Mirtul 11
Jafar offers to take the journals, the Draconomicon and the scroll to his friend Feldon Azadand to be identified.  Feldon cannot read the writing, but identifies them as drow, then notes that the journals cover a period dating from approximately two years ago up to the previous month.  He stashes the books and scroll in his locker.
Ellyth, meanwhile, makes contact with and charms a fence named Azadon.  Under the alias of Farwater, Esperel contacts a fence named Turith Maylar at the Copper Cup (DW D54).  Maylar offers to move the jade for 300 gp.
Tomas discovers that Thagdul
diversion
included setting fire to portions of Dockward that many of his acquaintances called home.  Guiltily, he spends the day helping out, and convincing some drunken sailors that they had all got pissed together the night before as an alibi.
At the end of the day, the party (minus Garth) meets at the Thirsty Throat for dinner.  Jafar pays for all, and announces his findings, telling us that the books are currently under study.  Ellyth notices that Teskul is watching them.  Teskul, it is noted, is quite similar in appearance to Thagdul.  He approaches, us, and tells the party that Thagdul is pleased with us, then leaves.  Esperel decides to follow Teskul, but loses him around Samarin
s Way and Golden Serpent St. in Northward.  After Esperel leaves, the remaining three decide to take the books to Serpentil
s Books and Folios to sell.  Jafar has the selections form the Draconomicon as a sample.  Tomas has doubts about selling the books, but Jafar pays little attention to the illiterate dullard.
At Serpentil
s, we interrupt Jannaxil in conversation with a man and a strange looking elf.  the former is dressed almost exactly like Thagdul, though with longer hair.  He carries a beholder staff slightly shorter that Thagdul
s.  The elf seems young (about 120) and is dressed in a purple chemise with a silk cloak and thick necklace.  Ellyth senses that he is not what he seems.  Jannaxil dismisses them and they head to the corner while Jafar makes his proposition.  Ellyth notices that the two strangers are paying a lot of attention to the party, and when he sees the book Jafar has brought as a sample (the Draconomicon) he is visibly irate.  Ellyth also hears the elf whisper softly to his partner
Will she ever fetch a fine price down below!
Jannaxil urges us to bring the books, and Jafar offers to stay while Tomas and Ellyth fetch them.  After Tomas and Ellyth leave, Jafar tells the elf that he
s working, and the elf glares at him, saying You
d better be.
Meanwhile, Esperel ahs been followed since losing Teskul, but manages to trick his pursuer, turning the chase around.  He soon loses them however.  Ellyth, manages to swindle herself a cart, and she and Tomas meet Garth and load the books and head back to Serpentil
s.  On the way, the Magistrate Thumin accosts us with the card and accuses us of stealing the books.  Ellyth defends us and implicates Azadon, her fence.  With the guards are the elf and others fellow from the shop.  A watch-wizard casts detect magic and all of our books glow with the same sigil around the neck of the elf.  Thanks to Ellyth
s quick thinking, Thumin lets us go with a warning to stay in Waterdeep, which irritates the elf even further.  The books and carts are confiscated (and a receipt is given) and the party returns to Jannaxil
s.  He expresses concern, but little initiative.  All return to Garth
Thagdul shows up, having learned of the group
s predicament.  He tells us that the tall man
s name is Aleshkun, one of the directors of Company Ersgul.  He reveals that Jannaxil is an Ersgul Agent, and offers to save us any legal hassle in exchange for another favour.  All accept.
It is at this time that Tomas realizes that Jafar is not a Calishite.  He may in fact be from the same area of the world as Aleshkun and Thagdul seem to be.  Also, Jafar slips up with his lie, and Ellyth makes him admit that the books we found are not in fact being studied, but are just sitting in his locker at the Magic Guild.
Ellyth returns home to find that someone has tried to break into her room.  The bouncers tell her that the attempt failed.  Tomas finds that his mother has been beaten and that his house has been ransacked.  All is stolen except for two harbour moons he had hidden, including his grandfather
s spyglass.  Garth and Esperel decide to case out Serpentil
s Books and Folios, but on the way there, Esperel doubles back to Garth
s house.
Meanwhile, Tomas, having seen to his mother
s safety, runs back to Garth
s house to wake up Jafar.  He explains what has happened and his suspicions about the rest of the party
s homes and possessions.  Jafar agrees, and returns to the Magic Guild.  Esperel comes back to find Tomas guarding the Jade.  The two decide to sell it immediately, rather than risk it being stolen.  They split up, Tomas taking a decoy on the main streets, and Esperel taking the alleys to the Copper Cup.  On the way, Esperel encounters two thieves, but he is able to avoid them by taking to roofs and using caltrops.  Tomas is attacked by at least one man with drugged darts, and two thugs with swords.  He manages to kill one thug and knock the other out, but is hit with a dart and falls unconscious.  He manages to call the guards before falling asleep.
Esperel sells the jade to Maylar for 54 pp, and waits awhile for Tomas, then tries to find him, unsuccessfully.  Tomas awakens the next morning in a guard tower with Captain Jalthor Murlyn of the watch (who knew his farther, and a shifty little character named Egan, who witnessed the attack.
Upon regrouping at Garth
s house, the party decides to form the Company of the Red Herring.  Strangely, Garth
s house was not robbed while Tomas, Ellyth and Esperel all reported break-ins or attempted ones at the very least.
We go to the Thirsty Throat to meet Thagdul who wants us to stop a shipment into Skullport.  He gives us directions to The Slide (see map 2) and entrance to the Undermountain from the sewers.  It doesn
t seem like Thagdul is telling us the whole truth, but he has given us one heck of a secret.
Ellyth gets a bow and we make up a plan, then head to the Slide and into the sewers.  Taking up positions, we wait.  Two men with flashlights enter the room off of the sewer proper. Almost immediately, the plan goes awry.   Tomas and Esperel take out one guy, while Ellyth kills another.  Once the Company heads out into the sewer proper, Ellyth knocks a third into the water.  Jafar casts some kind of spell, and Ellyth jumps to the ceiling ladder above the sewage canal, then hits an axe-wielding fellow with an arrow, knocking him into Esperel
s caltrops, then into the water.  Ellyth then shoots him again, while Tomas is suddenly engulfed in darkness, and attacked by another figure.  Tomas gets lucky and gashes his attacker.  As his companions note a drow head and shoulders fall out of the darkness and go floating by, Tomas walks out of the darkened area and rescues four little girls.
The company recovers two backpacks, full of spices and spell components, respectively.  The girls were taken up, and those that didn
t run away immediately were returned to their parents anonymously.
Later
Ellyth joins the Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors
Garth, as merchant Munk Applet, sells the spices.
Tomas runs into Egan again, who tells him to be prepared, but won
t say why.  Researching Ersgul leads Tomas to the offices of the Ersgul Shipping Company, on Net and Spice St. across from the Helmfast warehouse.
Garth, again as Muck Applet, heads to the Plinth to meet with a sage named Northund to find out more about Lycanthropes.  He is told about the Company of the Deep Delvers and Morgan Lathkule
a specialist in exterminating lycanthropes
Mirtul 24
Jafar is attempting to translate the journals, and pays for 5 days in the Magic Guild
s library.  Ellyth is being tutored by a fellow named Janados Eltorkul.
Tomas is going to the Thirsty Throat quite often these days.
In the middle of the day, a man named Raven shows up at Garth
s house, asking for help to rescue his sister.  He is told to come back later.
Ellyth disguises herself and heads out to buy a sword
Garth goes back to the house we burned, only to find that the house is still standing .  Entering, he hears someone upstairs, and sees two figures, which smell and look horrible (zombies) carrying chests.  He is soon caught, and a dark elf with long yellow hair, yellow/orange eyes and a sphinx staff talks to him.   He wears a long grey cloak with grey clothes and with him is Vuldan , the beholder-creature we saw before.  Vuldan calls eth elf
master
.  Garth is caught lying, and the elf, who introduces himself as Y
morth, tells him to come upstairs to the fourth floor, which is unburned.  Vuldan
s room looks like a lab being packed up.  Y
morth knows Thagdul, and tells Garth that he is in his debt, then casts a spell.  Garth now remembers talking to an man named Dally, not a dark elf.
Tomas makes a deal to arrange protection for his mother.  Thagdul tell Tomas that Yarkul is a Zhent.
Garth, upon returning, tells the story of his adventure.  Jafar is familiar with Dally from the Magic Guild.  Tomas meets with Raven and the two of them drink together as Raven tells the story of his life and his sister
s kidnapping.
Mirtul 25
Jafar has succeeded in translating the scrolls from the house, but is horrified at twhat he has found (see Dalael scroll handout).  It turns out that Erzgul and Drurginz and therefore the party have some connection to a company of drow operating out of Waterdeep.  Tomas meets him at the Crawling Spider and Jafar tells him what has happened.
Garth, disguised as the portly merchant Munk Applet, heads to the Lathkule place to requisition ten magical arrows and two enchanted daggers.  Raven agrees to accompany, and is given a sword enchanted against lycanthropes by Morgan Lathkule.
We meet with Thagdul, who tells us that Erzgul has been called upon by the Company of the Southern Star to purchase loot from Chult.  Aganon and Eldos, the only survivors of that company
s journey to the South, will be meeting a non-existent fence set up by Balkine of The Reprobates, a band of thugs often hired by Erzgul.  Balkine is a lycanthorpe.  Thagdul wants to get a hold of 6 bottles of greyish fluid that the Company of the Southern Star is bringing back with them.
Garth tells Thagdul about his encounter with Dally.  Thagdul is irritated, but casts detect magic to determine if any damage has been done.  He reassures Garth that no harm has been done.
The party goes to the sewer entrance in Castleward near Crossbow Lane.  The entrance is locked, but Garth gets a hammer and knocks out a hinge pin.  Below is what used to be a temple of Bane.  After surveying the layout of the temple, a plan is put into action.  Soon, the Company of the Southern Star appears and Balkine meets them.  An ambush occurs.  We rush in to help, slaying several wererats, but not before what remained of the Company of the Southern Star was no more.  Balkine and what appeared to be a wererat mage escaped.  Tomas grabbed the magical flashlight and was overwhelmed by a horde of rats.  The wave was eventually defeated, but the party made a hurried and bloody escape with the backpacks of the two dead adventurers.
Notable swag from this mission:
Wooden box of 20 lbs.
A locked book
Magic backpack of holding
2 potions
The box was packed with shavings from a magical rock in Chult known as the Heart of the Earth.
27 Mirtul
The Company of the Red Herring purchases Garth
s house and the deed is signed by Stugard Ashe, of the Exotic Fish Retrieval Company.  The Company buys a steel door and an excellent lock.
Wesperel got a loan and purchased a two-story workshop as Sylvanus Starmelder, Son of Aliforus and secured it against intrusion.  Tomas meets Welland of Hillsfar at Company Drurginz, a member of Thagdul
s staff.  He ends up helping out with a shipment of Ildar Orsabbas
and didn
t end up with much thanks for it.
Raven asks Morgan Lathkule about the Reprobates.  Lathkule says they
re running slaves in Undermountain.  They are exclusively demi-human, and hang out at the Bloody Fist.
Esperel find sout some of what your average man on the street knows about the Company of the Red Herring:
Rumour 8:
Didn
t they put the drop on the Colmpany of the Southern Star
They do legwork for the Company Drurginz
Raventree noble is adventuring with them (but he
s disguising himself).  In fact, aren
t the whole lot of them nobles, slumming it?
The Company of the Red Herring is a cover for Zhentarim agents.
Garth, as the sailor Brass Tharg, discovers that an elf named Mas
Illyn Vosch is a fence at the Elfstone Tavern.  He moves high-end stuff, often for Ersgul.
A chest is purchased for the CRH
s loot.  The shaving so fthe Heart of the Earth are secured in it, the chest is magically locked and then buried.
Kythorn 3
Esperel and Garth do a job in Castleward ended up stealing a box of plates.  Jafar fixed the broken casualty wagon.
Kythorn 4
Thagdul accosts Tomas while yelling at a guy.  Welland leaves the immediate area.  Thagdul tells Tomas to find the Reprobates and cut the head off their troglodyte half-orc leader Gul
dan.  Get his head and you get a bounty.  The Reprobates have been causin undue headaches for Compnay Drurginz.  Gul
dan is an Ersgul slave-runner.
Raven and Tomas head to the Bloody Fist.  Tomas takes out a couple of fighters, ends up getting in a wrestling match with Sgt. Krag, a half-ogre with slave-markings from the Spine of the World.  Tomas beats him, but Krag is soon up again and takes Tomas down.  Tomas and Raven dash upstairs and priests of Tempus heal him up, then they head down for round 3.  The rest of the Company of the Red Herring arrive, and Ellyth started picking pockets while Round 3 was going on.  Soon, Esperel gets in a fight, and Ellyth gets kicked out of the bar for trying to protect him.  Garth wins money betting against Tomas.
One of the wererats was in the bar
the hunched spellcaster.
dan is challenged to a duel by Raven, and says to meet him at an alley in an hour.  Tomas and Ellyth head to Tomas
wisewoman for some patching up, while Garth and Esperel follow the Reprobates.  Raven heads to the alley.  Garth and Ellyth see the whole pack of Reprobates come out of a house
a hooded figure, Sgt. Krag, Gul
dan, another half-orc, Balkine and the were-rat mage emerge.  Garth stays with the others while Esperel follows the hooded figure onto the roof, and tails him to the alley, Esperel comes under fire where he loses his quarry.  When he gets to the alley, Esperel comes under fire from the hooded figure.  Esperel cries out that
s and ambursh
and is wreathed by faerie fire.  Lots of jumping ensues on high, while all hell breaks loose below.  Raven takes a mighty blow from Gul
dan and exercises discretion as the better part of valour while Tomas steps in to take his palce.  Tomas goes down pretty quickly, and is soon dragged out of the way and into the fog where he is bandaged by Ellyth.  Raven manages to do a lot of damage to the hunched were-rat, but both parties back off with apparently no fatalities.
Tomas is taken to the priests of Tempus at the Bloody Fist by Raven, where he is healed.  Esperel doubles back to the Reprobate headquarters to listen for what he can
no luck.  When everyone gets back to the Red Herring Safehouse, we are flabbergasted to find that the Heart of the Earth has been stolen.
Kythorn 5
Garth gives each member of the party 5 light pellets.  Esperel stakes out the Reprobate HQ, and sees 2 small childlike figures exiting (goblins?).  They are dressed in conceling hoods, with long arms and bulbous noses.
Raven is healed, and asks the sewer workers guild for a Map, while Ellyth shops for equipmnt.  Garth goes to talk to Loremaster Kenneth Thames at the Font of Knowledge, to research the drow and the Reprobates.  Jafar researches beholders, while Tomas convalesces.
Kythorn 6
Rumour: Carter
s guild is free of search and seizure by members of the Watch.
Garth, in the guise of the merchant Daste Jim, gathers information about Huskar Hunabar, a noble who tried to sell the shavings of the Heart of the Earth to Alek Lenter at the Thirsty Throat.  Heart of the Earth is going in bulk at 5000 gp for 10 lbs, but it
s probably worth twice that.
The Hunabar family is involved in trading and importing fashions.  Huskar is the patriarch of the family, while other members of the family include Jan, a Knight of the Sword Coast, and Horth, a Deep Delver.  Their villa is located at N35.
Raven gets a map of the sewers and together with Esperel, starts figuring out a plan.  Tomas attempts to learn the habits of the wererat Reprobates, but is given a warning to stop poking around.  Ellyth continues to shop.  Espere borrows some money from Jafar tgo buy a bow
the guild refers him to the bowyer Janed Surefletch, who sells good bows at a discount price.
Raven and Esperel descend into the sewers.  The two end up getting lost, and are forced to retrace their steps until they are attacked by skeletons.  After the encounter, the two surface for healing and to fetch their weapons before returning.  Raven encounters a crew of sewer workers, who give him some information about the local layout.  Meanwhile, Esperel avoids 2 humanoids of indeterminate type who are carrying a body through the sewers.
Jafar purchase some type F poison, which he describes as paralysis poison and that is administered by injection only.  Garth buys some antidote to drow paralysis poisonf from Kennyth for 50 gp and gives one to Tomas.  Kenneth gives him some information (see the handout entitled the Drow in Waterdeep).
Raven and Esperel mark he doors of the Reprobate Hideout to see if they are used at all.  Tomas notes that three big guys bringing a caravan of six carts and horses into the Ersgul warehouse.  Sgt. Krag is supervising some of the workers.
Rumour 8
A priest of Tyr has interrogated victims of the Ravenblight/Doomface creature post-mortem.
Kythorn 7
Ellyth gets 2 silver arrows for free from someone, which Raven treats with Jafar
s poison.  Raven and Esperel discover that the doors have not been used since they last checked.  Everyone but Jafar heads into the sewers.
A drow mark (B) is noticed in the sewer.  Esperel and Ellyth note a wall inconsistency across from another drwo mark B.  Jafar takes off in the night, casting alter self to give himself wings and nabbing one of the goblins from outside the Reprobate headquarters.  However, he blacks out flying over Fish St., after being hit by some darts.
When the company emerges from the sewers, Tomas and Garth head to the Blushing Mermaide to see about Krag while Ellyth works on her spells.
Raven and Esperel descend into the sewers again.  They notice two figures quietly padding by, then see Gul
dan, Krag and the half-orc Stektine walk by.  Epserel follows, and is the n followe dyb the two figures, who seem to have doubled back.  Raven attacks, dealing a huge blow to Balkine, but is paralysed by a spell.  The other three Reprobates turn around and Esperel makes himself scarce.  Raven
s eye is torn out by the wererats, and then they flee.
Above, Tomas and Ellyth see the same group heading into the Ersgul warehouse.  Tomas goes for the others, whiel garth scouts out the warehouse from the roof.  He listens to a conversation:
so there
s nothing you can do about it?
You figure it out.
dan
re a lot of use, Yarkul.
sound of wood hitting the floor (staff)
Jafar wakes up shirtless with a bandage head in a watchtower.  A Black-haired halfling is standing over him, with a look of scrutiny and disdain.  Apparently Jafar had crashed into a window with a bolt stuck in his side.  The halfling, Ilf, discharges him with a warning.  Jafar then meets Egan, who leads him to an alley and says
Run down there
people are still after you.
He does, and hears a screeching of rats in the distance.
Esperel and Garth get rid of their loot from Kythorn 3 by selling it to their fences, while Ellyth makes some money thieving at the Blushing Mermaid, and all head home.
Kythorn 8
After much arguing, the party comes up with a plan to ambush the Reprobates.  Jafar buys some more poison and administers it to an arrow.  Esperel, Garth and Raven find an alley for the ambush to occur.  Ellyth charms four simpletons to go into the Bloody Fist to spread the rumour that Raven is lying bleeding in an alleyway, close to death in the hopes that some of the Reprobates will hear and come to investigate.
All station themselves, and the whole thing turns into a mess because of the hooded drow Reprobate.  In the combat, Stektine dies from poison wounds (Jafar is chastised afterwards).
Swag:
short sword of lesser enchantment
dagger of moderate enchantment
Reprobate cload
quality axe
ring of protection of lesser enchantment.
Greengrass
Stephen Robertson
Stephen Robertson
Microsoft Word 9.0
Greengrass
Microsoft Word Document
