:Well the year was 1372 (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:A dark robed man with a beholder staff
:Came upon us and laughed and laughed

:Tyr damn them all! I was told
:We’d swing our swords For Zhentish gold.
:We’d fight no drow, shed no tears
:Well I’m a broken man on a Dockward pier,
:The last Red-Herring Companeer.

:Well, three brave teams see forth one day (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:The evil bastards schemes to foil
:With the blood and sweat of our brave toil

:To Anauroch east we set our sights (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:With  on our trail
:Our best attempts were doomed to fail

:With a price on our heads we rode and rode (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:The Rangers caught us and were not kind
:With old man Death not far behind

:Hanibal vanished that very night (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:Well Raven lay dead in a pool of blood
:But with Grimwald gone we could do our job

:Anarouch beckoned near and near (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:Well Maturin and Sparrow took to the road
:With Boregar and Corrina to share the load

:In Secomber town we found some friends (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:Dorian’s swords they never lacked
:And Dalak was just a dwarf with an axe

:It was a full month out when we saw the hills (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:But then wild magic took the lead
:And soon we became demon feed

:With a heavy sigh we entered the sands (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:Anauroch heaved and blew all night
:Not an inch we moved when the sky was light

:Grandfather roamed not far away (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:The great lion roared and came ‘pon us
:And Maturin did what a Paladin does

:At the dawn or the day we knew it was lost (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:We sat and looked for growth an our manes
:As the lycanthrope’s curse coursed through our veins

:The days did pass and the moon did rise (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:Well the full horror of the night - no one saw it coming
:Even with the Zhents’ best Divining

:Ilmater cast Maturin from the faith (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:The greatest Paladin the world would see
:Would nothing more than a fighter be

:Sparrow and Corrina turned around (How I wish I was in Elmwood now!)
:The others werelions when the moon would wax
:But Dalak still just a dwarf with an axe
