Redjack Question for Jasper — Lucan's Legal Scheme After Grimaldous
Stephen Robertson (as Lucan) and Gus Miranda (as Jasper)
Email thread: "Redjack Question for Jasper", 25-26 Apr 2024
Thread ID: 18f17c481c050fc3

An in-character exchange in which Lucan approaches a shell-shocked Jasper immediately after the death of Grimaldous (a Redjack competitor killed by Jeska). Lucan plots to use the Whitegate dueling precedent — the same one the Redjacks invoked when they killed Bree — to claim the round rather than forfeit it. Lucan and Jasper conspire to use Ghost Sound to fabricate crowd support for Lucan's legal argument. Directly connects to the "Lucan's Argument" thread (same day).

---

STEPHEN (25 Apr 2024, 20:22):

In the immediate aftermath of Grimaldous's demise, a sickly and exhausted-looking Lucan limps over to Jasper's side, his eyes blazing with a cross between satisfaction and deviousness....

"Jasper, friend. What do you remember about that dueling precedent that Whitegate judge cited when the Redjacks killed Bree the other day? I've got a sneaking sense that we might need to lean on that for a bit..."


GUS (26 Apr 2024, 15:30):

I have no recollection of this...

Jasper stares at Lucan blankly, "Rapier... through throat... so much blood! I mean, um... What?"

Lucan is definitely going to have to get a drink or two in him, before any useful information can be extracted.


STEPHEN (26 Apr 2024, 11:26):

Right-o. Remind me - can Jasper project someone else's voice with a cantrip? Something like Clarion Call? Lucan's thinking he might need to call on that ability in the next few moments, and his throat is pretty raspy...

(The thing is, Lucan may be a cad, but he's an experienced Sembian duelist, and forfeiting the round doesn't exactly float his boat - especially since the Redjacks won their round when they got away with murder the other day. So depending on what happens, he wants to throw Whitegate's precedent back at him and claim the round, recasting Jeska's offer to forfeit the round as legally impermissible under Dales Law.)


GUS (26 Apr 2024, 17:22):

Kind of, but no. He has Ghost Sound. I don't remember if he has it memorized at the moment (I'll have to log into Hero Lab and see, but I am away from computer and on my phone). I'm almost certain he does.

The spell changed in the remastered version and I don't know if we're doing remastered or legacy to be honest. I'll have to check with Blackwell.

It won't be a Clarion Call type thing, but maybe Lucan can say something and Jasper can make the illusion of the crowd muttering their agreement.

It can't be intelligible, but I guess Jasper can make it sound like someone in the crowd shouts, "Meherba dulan hara hatuis!" And Lucan answers back, "That's right, my good man! As that good citizen has pointed out, Dales Law is quite clear that..." etc


STEPHEN (26 Apr 2024, 22:01):

That ought to be enough.

"I'm going to say my piece, Jasper my friend. Just remember, you've got my back. Just like I have yours."

---

KEY LORE POINTS:

- Grimaldous was a Redjack competitor killed by Jeska during a match — Jeska wanted to forfeit but Lucan saw an opportunity
- The Redjacks had previously killed Bree (a Chrysalis NPC?) and won their round via a Whitegate dueling precedent
- Lucan plans to use the same precedent against the Redjacks — "Battle's Finality" argument drafted the same night (see companion thread "Lucan's Argument")
- Jasper and Lucan conspire to use Ghost Sound to fake crowd support during Lucan's legal argument — classic con-man scheming
- Ghost Sound is an illusion cantrip that creates unintelligible sounds — Jasper would simulate crowd agreement while Lucan "translates"
- Jasper was traumatized by the violence: "Rapier... through throat... so much blood!"
- The Lucan/Jasper partnership is fully operational by this point — "you've got my back. Just like I have yours."

SOURCE: Gmail thread 18f17c481c050fc3, 25-26 Apr 2024
PARTICIPANTS: Stephen Robertson, Gus Miranda
PRIVATE THREAD: Stephen and Gus only
