[PC Attribution: Hennigan Paros (Jeff)]
=Report=
:8th of Marpenoth, 1481 DR
:Report on the Dwimmerholme Abductions Investigation:Sergeant Hennigan Paros, White Cloaks
To Administrator Alen Reks,

Before we left the morning of the 8th, Shae and I went to speak with Roger Dunland. He felt he had some part to play and in speaking to Shae remembered a book he received from the late, Phineas Hoetmer. Its pages describe a ritual, Bel's Bargain, that mirrors the stories we have heard from the rescued survivors. These people were kidnapped and more-or-less forced under the most vile conditions to relinquish their souls to these slavers as a form of unholy currency. The book also claims the ritual is reversible, effectively restoring the soul to these husks I described in the last report. Hoetmer writes, \"The details of this ritual can be found in the Codex of Prayer.\" Nathan Gale is currently safeguarding the book and the large bags of \"soul gems\" that belong to these husks.

Shortly after our encounter with Mr. Dunland I spoke with Lt. Kesh Oakdale and requested a group of Sun Blades to accompany us north to the cave, he obliged and granted us an escort of six fine soldiers.

A large battle took place at the mouth of the cave where we were caught in a pincer attack by nigh on thirty slavers. The Sunblades and I rained bolts upon them while Imogen, Nathan, and Bastian held the cave mouth from the hobgoblins charging in from the north and south. After witnessing Shae on that battlefield, I very nearly bent my knee to Amaunator. In the blink of an eye a swath of light incinerated a dozen hobgoblins who moved to strike her. If only I could be so grossly incandescent, praise the sun she was with us.

The cave was a complete mess and housed the largest of this cell's forces. In the filth we came under contact with an ogre, several dretches, and two tiefling magic-users. We captured the male named, Xaphan, while the female cloaked herself in invisibility and fled into the wilderness. We bound and gagged the tiefling, bound the three husks we found outside the cave, and rescued a little boy. On the walk back to Dwimmerholme he told us about some kind of teleportation ritual they planned on using, to possibly get into Dwimmerholme.

When we broke through the treeline later that day we could see smoke rising from inside the walls of Dwimmerholme. We removed the gag from Xaphan and decided to perform our interrogation on the road. He explained that they were not slavers but rather the Cult of Bel, sent here to kidnap people and reap souls in order to purchase the services of devils and the favour of Bel himself. He explained how the little girl we first rescued wore a necklace that acted as a focus for their teleportation ritual and that they used it to gain entry to the farmstead. The leader of this cell is a tiefling by the name of Vetis, who was currently organizing the assault on the farmstead. Xaphan also told us how the cult was going to escape with a similar ritual and offered us their exit location to ambush if we spared his life. At first I refused the devil's offer, but Nathan convinced me otherwise and agreed that his life would be spared if he gave us the location. He pointed us to a cornfield a short-walk away, our group turned in that direction and I remained behind to uphold my end of the bargain. I cut his hands off above the wrist to remove his restraints, kicked him into the darkness, and gave the hands to Nathan to keep with the others.

As an aside, I should inform you now that if a bounty is posted for these cultists, Nathan Gale has taken the initiative by starting a collection of hands. He has dozens kept in various sacks, commendable foresight.

It was obvious when we reached the location Xaphan described, there were tracks everywhere through the corn and a large 15-foot-diameter occult symbol had been bled into the soil. We set up into an ambush and waited for them to start pouring into the field. Wave after wave appeared half cultists / half farmstead citizens, and we fell upon them with each tide of reinforcements. The citizens fled in every direction while we fought off the cultists. In the end we killed their leader, Vetis, in the chaos, along with some kind of \"pain devil\" that Xaphan said they had purchased with some of the souls. All the citizens survived, with the exception of one of our Sunblades.

Once the fires had been put out within the farmstead and everyone safely behind the walls we spoke with the mayor and lieutenant again. We told them everything written here and they felt confident that with the bulk of cultist forces and leadership dead that the Sunblades would send a detachment to clean up the final hideout in the north-east. It turns out the cultists had a dryad husk with them controlling the woods, devils truly are the enemy of all.

It appears that Daggerdale faces a much more sinister and vile threat than slavers from the south. This cell alone numbered over a hundred able-fighters composed of Zhentarim, goblinoids, devils, and an ogre. All appeared to be members of the cult or transitioning into the cult. The leaders of these cells are tieflings like Doghan, Vetis, and Xaphan, or tiefling half-breeds such as Sabnock. They operate outside of our morality and as such can take advantage of our mercy, sympathy, and sensitivity toward certain horrors.

Two cultists remain at large, Xaphan and the female tiefling.

Once everything here has stabilized and the forest is clear of cultist activity we will return with a wagon heavily laden with the armaments of these cultists.

Junior Member,
— Hennigan Paros}}
