[PC Attribution: Hennigan Paros (Jeff)]
:7th of Marpenoth, 1481 DR
:Report on the Dwimmerholme Abductions Investigation
:Sergeant Hennigan Paros, White Cloaks

To Administrator Alen Reks,

The road was quiet and uneventful until our arrival at the edge of Dwimmerholme's southern fields where we heard movement approaching from the west. A small child was running toward our position with a dozen slavers in pursuit. We hastily set up a defensible position and Imogen Mystral dealt with the child while the remainder fought off the slavers. We captured one tiefling, killed eight slavers, and the remaining three slavers retreated west into the woods.

The child was covered in lacerations and appeared to have been running through the brush for hours if not days. She would not speak with us, nor her family, but she was left in the care of her kin.

We had Mayor Darius Winters, Magistrate Ankger Willems, and Lt. Kesh Oakdale explain what had happened here and what leads they had on who these slavers are or where they could have taken the families. From what witnesses reported, slavers set up an ambush for the three families tending to the farm's northern fields, captured them, and dragged them off into the woods to the north.

The interrogation of the tiefling, Doghan, went poorly. He gave us a number of false leads that looked promising until we asked the mayor's opinion. Apparently there are three cells to this slaving operation and they are what is plaguing Daggerdale. He gave us a name of his employer who resides in Marsember, Cormyr, a tiefling by the name of Seir, who is apparently from the 4th layer of hell. He also explained that he was just another mercenary hired out of Marsember like the rest of the slavers, many of whom appear to be Zhents. Doghan had a tattoo of a pentagram that Shea recognized as a symbol of a devil named Bel, ruler of the 1st layer of hell.

We asked the mayor if there were any places of interest where these slavers could be hiding out, he informed us that there was a hunting lodge three miles north-north-west of the farm. He also warned us that the forest had been acting strangely lately. That the wood had a will of its own and was actively thwarting the Sun Blade patrols they sent into the woods after the slavers.

From there we went to speak with the Chaunteans and with the Cultivar herself and they agreed to perform a ritual they guaranteed would grant us safe passage through the wood.

==North Into the Woods==
We left before noon on 6th of Marpenoth and followed the tracks to a cross-road a few hours later. Here the tracks split to the west, north, and east with a large set of tracks (possibly ogre or giantkin) heading north. Nathan Gale discovered a strange winged-creature that could easily camouflage with its surroundings, so much so that the rest of us only saw it until after it darted off into the woods to the north. We let it run and started travelling west toward the hunting lodge only to be set upon by a large brown bear a short while later. I thought we had lost Shea to the creature’s claws but Imogen pulled her to safety and we succeeded in driving the beast away.

While we were recuperating we heard movement approaching our position again and ambushed another dozen slavers, including that transparent creature Shea recognized as an imp. One man was captured, ten were killed, only one escape north. We interrogated the man and he confirmed that the hunting lodge was one of their bases of operation and that the tracks we had seen leading north belonged to an ogre named, Boraz.

The lodge was a gruesome site that I will not describe here. There we fought a heated battle against a large group of goblinoids and a strange half-breed by the name Sabnock, a mixture of tiefling and goblin (pentagram tattoo). We found seven survivors at the lodge and it suffices to say that they suffered greatly during their time in captivity. There were pentagrams drawn in blood on the floor of the lodge. Three of the survivors were staked to these pentagrams in preparation for a ritual that, according to one of the survivors, they were tricked into trading their souls away for the safety of their loved ones via an oath or promise.

I believe four of the seven were in fact victims of this ritual and are now what I consider, \"husks\". Soulless creatures kept \"alive\" by some form of demonic magic. Nathan and Bastian insisted (to the point of abject insubordination) we take them with us but I declined them. Given the toll that battle took on our party, how these tethered creatures would be hindrance, and with the knowledge that there was another slaver patrol roaming the woods nearby I felt that if we brought those husks with us (with no guarantee that they could be restored) then we would never have come out of those woods. I put the husks to the sword and burned the bodies along with the lodge before we left through the woods back to Dwimmerholme.

It is late into the night and we leave tomorrow at sunrise. We will be heading back to the crossroads and continuing north toward a cave, as the mayor has informed me. I have given the letters to the mayor and the innkeeper as was detailed in the orders and this letter was place in the care of the innkeeper.

Junior Member,
— Hennigan Paros}}
