[PC Attribution: Rufus Larrigan (Stephen Robertson)]
[RAW - UNEDITED AND UNREVIEWED - extracted by automated process, not yet verified for accuracy or completeness]

In a matter of hours our expedition leaves for the North. It is a matter of hours before dawn, and still I feel no weariness. Tomorrow will be a long day, I reckon. Raven and I are keeping watch this night, to make sure that no ill befalls us. It seems we have already attracted some unwanted attention. It has finally dawned on me who these strangers in grey are. I grew up hearing so many tales of Sherriff Grimwald that I half believed he was an invention of those Daleswoman mothers that try desperately to frighten their wild children into some semblance of good behaviour. And yet ethere he sits, eyeing Raven from across the room, as real as I am. Selune save us from our own nightmares.
After the chill of the winter past, I am not eager to make a third journey to Neverwinter, and envy my comrades heading East. I shall not see the Dales this season, and it pains me to hear of the strife unleashed there by the Zhents. There is little I wouldn:t apy to see the misty woods of my youth once more, and though I know my duty lies to the North, where Zaltim charged me with my mission, my heart looks always to Mistledale, my bittersweet home. I pray that our mission is swiftly realized, for there is yet the chance that we may rejoin our friends and aid them. I pray that Selune will be kind to my friends, and that they may succeed in their mission. I am comforted that Raven is among them. I know little of our alleis form the East – Sparrow, Maturin, Boregar and Hanibal (that strange little man). Still, I know that Mourn will be a solid presence, and I am confident that his leadership will see them through.

We seem to be so unprepared, setting off to the North and East with so little knowledge and so many questions. It is surely a measure of the desperation of our allies that they would entrust so great a task to novices. I humbly accept the task but wish that Agamemnon was coming with us.
Ah Rufus. Enough mooning about. You and Beljuril are the ones entrusted with this task, and it is your responsibility! Agamemnon has his own duties in the city. Still, I almost envy Beljuril’s annoying sense of purpose. Ah the confidence of youth. May the years be kind to him where they are cruel to the many. (Still, a bit of humility wouldn’t hurt the boy…)
Our goals are threefold:
Investigate and stop the slave trade in the North
Find Belduran
Eliminate the threats to the Harpers
I am sure that these are connected. Light in the East. We ride now.

It is clear to me from his murderous rage upon learning of Thagdul’s involvement, that the hunabar patriarch was opposed to the mysterious mage’s acquisition of the staff. The sudden expiry of the ultimatum I had been given also tells me that Husakar knew that Thagdul would not so easily give up his prize, and so must realize the value of the staff to Thagdul.
To Huskar, then, man and staff were linked in some way. Why would Hunabar so desperately want to keep the staff from Thagdul, personally?
Thagdul was involved somehow during the acquisition of the staff by the Hunabars, and the two parties were now (or perhaps had always been) at odds.
Huskar had an unrelated vendetta against Thagdul, and vice versa, and the theft of the staff was merely a point of honour between competitors.
Huskar had designs at profiting by the staff that he knew would never be realized without it. (does this belong on the list?)
Another party, to which Huskar had some obligation, had made known their opposition to Thagdul’s acquisition of the staff
Considering these options, we can but conjecture on the first, dismiss the second and dwell upon the fourth, which we will see can be bolstered by other facts.