Selected Entries from the Journal of Aisling Maeliticus - Discussion Thread
Date: 15 June 2025
From: Stephen Robertson (with Gus Miranda)
To: Gus Miranda, Les Blackwell, Scott Mclaren, Todd Burry

[Stephen's analysis, written before reading Gus's theory:]

Before I read your thoughts, Gus, let me set mine down and see where we are in agreement.

1. Contessa Palus and Contessa Quercina have a falling out.
2. Palus decides she needs an ally against her sister - finds the Shadow. Palus becomes a shadow asset near Thistle Ridge.
3. Netheril hatches a plan to open up Shadowfell gates east of Dagger Falls to arrange a pincer attack.
4. Coven (say the Daerlun chapter of the Dark Garden) that is aware of the Tenebrius Ostium (Shadow Gate) artifacts places a curse on Aisling's family and another
5. The Old Patriarch (a Shadow Factor) arranges a new identity for these families by sending the real Alavandors to Unther.
6. The fake Alavandors and Clarandals are "sent" to Thistle Ridge, where they will unwittingly further the plans of both Palus (ousting Quercina among other things) and Netheril
7. Palus pretends to be Jannath and sets up Aisling as a "priestess" and sets up a cult. Many children are produced.
8. Palus arranges for the Sembian settlers to drive off Quercina
9. Aisling confronts Palus and gets re-educated

.... [need to do some thinking]

15. Palus opens the gates to the Shadowfell, but something happens and the timing is no longer right to take advantage of the gates
16. Invictus arranges for the gates to remain a mystery
17. 1480, Netheril tries a sortie against Daggerdale from the West, is rebuffed when Tethyamar reappears
18. Netheril regroups and Loki arranges with Palus (and Palus's grand? daughter Charrah) to re-establish a military presence in Dagger Falls
19. Someone in Dagger Falls is aware of this and arranges for the organized reclamation of Thistle Ridge, but only indirectly in opposition to Netheril
20. Chrysalis takes the case.

That's my high-level idea of how this has all played out. Now, let's see your theory:

[Gus Miranda's theory:]

1. 'Alavandors' made a pact with the Netherese in Daerlun.
2. They betrayed that pact and fled to Daggerdale where Palus helped them hide and procreate.
3. Netheril found out that Palus was harbouring the fake Alavandors
4. Palus sacrifices Andarl, Abrecia and Dorian in 1439 as part of a ritual
5. Palus has control of the orbs. Including possibly the one used in Daerlun that the Alavandors may have brought to Daggerdale with them
6. Palus has now grown in power and control and poses a threat to Netherese ambitions, so they take her out in 1441, driving her out of Thistle Ridge
7. But Palus sacrificed the three girls through Alaventa resulting in a situation where even the Netherese can't claim Thistle Ridge. This is why it lies dormant, haunted and forgotten for 40 years.
8. Palus regains much of her strength and feels like she can retake Thistle Ridge and recover the missing orbs.
9. Loki aims to stop her, using us as a tool against Palus, while claiming the orbs for herself.
10. Palus tries to stop us by hitting us with the purple worm attack
11. We do everything exactly as Loki wants us to do: destroying Palus' goblin army, denying her Thistle Ridge, killing Charrah, killing Coventina (a prime witness to the Shadow conspiracy in Dagger Falls) and letting her take the orb she was after while we were distracted with the fight.

[Stephen's response:]

That's a neat theory, but there are several reasons why I don't find it persuasive.

1. Aisling does say they were "sent" to Thistle Ridge as part of a pact with a coven.
2. The Alavandor swap was arranged by a mysterious figure in Sembia (probably).
3. Loki excavated the orbs herself in 1480 (at least, the Imperiosus Orbis orbs)
4. A few other details, but less damning.

We're getting warmer.

[Additional discussion on tactical matters including orbs, Charrah's identity, the girl ghosts, and the underground river's possible connection to the Shadowfell.]
