== 13 Mirtul - Looking into Lycanthropes ==
thumb|280px|Egan offers some cryptic advice.

The following day was spent in the continuation of research, Red Herring business and individual pursuits. The Company's first venture had been a success - but more importantly, to the mind of most of the companeers, it had been profitable. Garth donned the disguise of a portly merchant by the name of Munk Applet and set about selling the spices the party had recovered, earning quite a tidy sum for the Company coffers. Likewise, Jafar co-opted the spell components and spent the day setting up a modest \"Company laboratory\" in Garth's barn.

For reasons of her own, Ellyth decided that she, too, would join the Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors, and quickly found a sponsor into that order.

Tomas took it upon himself to find out more about Aleshkun and Company Ersgul, and was easily able to find the offices of the Ersgul Shipping Company, located on Net and Spice St. across from the Helmstar warehouse. The boy kept his distance from the operation, however, fearing discovery, and had a fright when he heard a somewhat familiar voice beside him say \"Keeping an eye on 'em, eh? Well, you'd best do that. You'll need to be prepared the way you're going.\"

Turning to the direction of the voice, Tomas at first saw no one, then looked down to see that there was in fact someone standing beside him. It was Egan, the halfling who had seen him to safety two nights earlier. When he asked Egan what he meant however, the little halfling simply scowled and said, \"Silver or magic, my lad. That's the way to do it,\" then wandered off. Tomas was surprised at this - Silver or magic? There was only one thing that could mean. He hurried back to tell his companions of his encounter, but Garth - just returned from selling spices - was the only one home.

Without changing out of his disguise, Garth told Tomas to let him look into it, and so it was that Munk Applet paid a visit to the Font of Knowledge, where he was directed to a sage named Northund. Northund was an expert on the legends and lore of lycanthropy, and was happy to relate what he knew to a sympathetic ear. During this conversation, Garth learned that there was in fact a Waterdeep adventuring company devoted to the extermination of such creatures, known as the Company of Deep Delvers. He was told that these men and women would be the best bet at providing \"anti-lycan security services\" for Applet's caravans, and that he should direct any enquiries to a man named Morgunn Lathkule – a nobleman and spokesman for the Company.

Tomas, who had been left cooling his heels at Garth's, ended the day at the Thirsty Throat, spinning yarns about the noble rescue the Red Herrings had pulled off the day before.

== 14 Mirtul - The Sphinx and the Raven ==

=== Dallying with the Drow ===
thumb|The two faces of Y'morth Dalael
The following day, his initial setup of the Company Laboratory complete, Jafar returned to the offices of the Watchful Order to continue translating the drow writings recovered by the companions in their first mission. He was surprised and not entirely pleased to find that Ellyth had managed to make quick inroads into the Watchful Order during his absence. She already had many wizards of note doing their best to \"make the new recruit feel comfortable\" (not that any of them had yet paid him any notice - and he had even joined the Fire Watch!). What's more, Ellyth's sponsor, Janados Eltorchul - a distinguished wizard from a prestigious noble family - had taken her on as his personal protégé, and to add insult to injury, the little tramp had picked up a sword somewhere, which she was openly flaunting on her slender waist - an enchantress with a sword! Shaking his head in frustration, Jafar paid for five days of library privileges, and sat down to a project that would take him several days of arduous labour.

Garth, meanwhile, had decided to return to the house the companions had torched for Thagdul. He was growing increasingly suspicious of the Moonsea man's motives, and hoped to find some further clue as to why the Red Herrings had been sent to torch the place. He was surprised, however, to find the structure still standing, only a little the worse for wear after the conflagration they had instigated. Entering stealthily, he heard movement up the stairs, and before long he witnessed two figures, which both looked and smelled horrible (\"Those men are dead!\" he thought, terrified) carrying chests down from the upstairs chambers to the lower floors. The two figures shuffled past him without notice, and Garth stepped out of the shadows only to come face to face with a grey-cloaked dark elf bearing an expression far from amusement. This particular drow had long yellowish hair, deep yellow eyes the colour of egg yolks, and carried a staff capped with a golden sphinx. Though every instinct screamed for him to flee, Garth stood rooted to the spot, not daring to move. For behind the grey-clad figure of the drow hovered what could only have been Vuldan, the beholder-creature that Tomas had described.

However, while the dark elf did not appear pleased, neither did he appear to express any anger at Garth's trespass, and even showed the courtesy of introducing himself, as Y'morth Dalael, before he began interviewing the young housebreaker. During the interrogation, the drow made several remarks to Vuldan, who appeared to act as a kind of secretary, and Garth noted that the beholder-thing called the elf ‘master’. Though Garth attempted to prevaricate on several occasions, he felt a mysterious compulsion to spill all he knew about Thagdul to his interlocutor. When Y'morth had finished, he smiled and invited the young man to join him upstairs on the fourth floor. Garth felt compelled to follow, and was surprised in spite of himself to find that the fourth floor remained untouched by the fires that ravaged the rest of the house. In the room that Tomas had described as Vuldan’s was a laboratory seemingly in the process of being packed up. Rooting around in a box for some spell component or other, Y’morth remarekd to Garth that he did in fact know about Thagdul - knew him personally, in fact - and told the young man that he is now in the drow's debt, before casting a spell, after which Garth's memory blanked. When he awoke, Garth remembered the conversation in every detail, save that in the place of the dark elf Y'morth, he remembered talking to a human mage named Dally - a man whom Jafar would later tell him was a member in good standing of the Watchful Order.

=== The House of Raventree ===
thumb|300px|Mourn \"Raven\" Raventree II
While this encounter was taking place, a large, muscular man calling himself Raven of House Raventree showed up at the Red Herring House on a matter that would prove to be of some importance. He was greeted by a distracted and suspicious Esperel. Though he had little time for the visitor, Esperel's careful eye nevertheless took a quick and detailed inventory of the man's appearance. \"Raven\" was clothed in expensive but functional leathers, and though he seemed well-bred and bore an air of nobility, there was a wildness about him that marked him apart from the regular humans denizens of Waterdeep. When asked on what business he had come, Raven explained that he had heard tell of the Red Herrings' exploits in the sewers (likely thanks to Tomas' boasting at the Dripping Dagger) and was seeking allies who would join him on a rescue mission to retrieve his sister, whom he had reason to suspect may have been abducted for sale in the slave markets of Skullport by the same villains that the Red Herrings had faced. Esperel told the man to return later, and met the ranger's confused reaction with a cold stare. Shrugging, Raven took his leave, and Esperel's careful eye followed his figure down the street, until the nobleman was well out of sight.

Tomas, meanwhile, had been seeing to affairs of his own. Though Garth's proposition that the Company of the Red Herring would see to their individual securities, he was still worried about his mother's safety. To guard against the possibility of her being put into danger again, Tomas had arranged protection for her by pledging his services individually to Thagdul, whom he had gone to see at the offices of Company Drurginz (he was unaware that Thagdul already had men watching her flat around the clock by that time). During the conversation, Thagdul agreed that he would provide such service in exchange for Tomas loyalty. He also conspiratorially let the young fisherman in on the fact that Aleshkun was actually a Zhent whose true name was Yarkul, and that Ersgul was a front for Zhent trade on the Sword Coast. Tomas, glad to have the heft of Thagdul's operation looking out for his dear mother, perhaps wisely did not voice his train of thought - that if Yarkul was a Zhent and he looked just like Thagdul... Lost in thought (an unfamiliar sensation for the young fisherman), Tomas' feet began wandering along their habitual route to the Copper Cup - the nearest Dock Ward drinking establishment.

It was in this preoccupied condition that Raven, as he moved away from the headquarters of what he had thought would be his sister's deliverance, encountered Tomas, whom he recognized from the description he had been given in the Thirsty Throat. Catching the young commoner's eye, he pointed towards the Copper Cup, which, coincidentally, was only a couple doors away, and mimed hoisting a jar. Tomas' worried face broke into a grin as he nodded slowly and gestured for Raven to lead the way. For the next several hours, Tomas listened attentively, and increasingly enthusiastically, as Raven told the story of his life and his sister’s kidnapping.

== Interlude - Third Mission: Raven's Sister ==

Rooken intelligence on the matter of the third mission undertaken by the Company of the Red Herring is extremely limited. The expedition into the sewers to rescue Jameen Raventree was seemingly a success, though for unhappy reasons that will become clear in time, this happy outcome brought but little respite to the ill-fated House of Raventree.

== 24 Mirtul - A Horrifying Discovery ==
thumb|100px

A tenday was to pass before Jafar finished translate the scrolls. What he found disturbed him to such an extent, however, that he wasted no time in heading to the Crawling Spider, not far from the Watchful Order, for a stiff drink. As luck would have it (though Tymora no doubt professes her innocence on this occasion), the secretive wizard found that Tomas was already there, half-drunk as usual, having followed a pair of half-orcs he had started drinking with at the Bloody Fist to the more upscale Spider in hopes of finding some female companionship that had neither beards nor tusks. Jafar's arrival put such thoughts out of his mind, however (as the mage's sour countenance tended to do) and Jafar uneasily related his discovery to the young brawler. Tomas was equally mortified to discover the ‘truth’ about their employer, and the world into which they had unwittingly stepped. According to the scroll, Not only was Thagdul possibly a Zhentarim agent of Manshoon, but both Ersgul and Drurginz (and therefore, by extension, the Red Herrings) were also somehow connected to a company of drow operating out of Waterdeep - not to mention two beholders. Well sobered up after hearing the news, Tomas gravely suggested that the two return to headquarters to inform the others. No one was happy to hear what Jafar had to say.

== 25-26 Mirtul - Fourth Mission: The Southern Star ==

The Company’s next operation for Thagdul was destined to alter the courses of their lives, though none truly understood this before it was far too late.

The next day, Garth (in his portly merchant guise) paid another visit to the villa of the Lathkule family to requisition ten magical arrows and two enchanted daggers for \"a client\". In reality, he was intent on arming the Company for the rescue mission they had agreed to run with Raven, who accompanied him on this visit, as he happened to be a family relation of the Lathkules. The two met again with Morgunn Lathkule, who was much more well-disposed to the merchant given the company of his young cousin. He, too, was worried about the fate of Jameen (Raven's sister), who was married to his nephew Myelin Lathkule. Morgunn produced the goods, and after a harsh exchange with Applet, a receipt, then mentioned privately to Raven that he had something further that could prove usseful. He disappeared into the villa for a few minutes, then returned carrying a magnificent-looking blade which he gave as a loan to Raven - the young man would likely have need of it sooner than he. He also provided Applet with an adjustable magical \"flashlamp\" that would cast a narrowly-focussed beam of light in the darkness below.

=== The Expedition from Chult ===

Upon their return to Garth's with the equipment, however, the two found that the other Company members waiting for them. The Red Herrings had been summoned by Thagdul. Given the revelations of the previous night, the party had serious reservations about continuing to work for the Moonsea man. On the other hand, the note had also given them a very good reason to fear their mysterious patron. It was decided that they would continue to work for Drurginz - provided they weren't asked to do anything untoward.

The party met Thagdul at the Thirsty Throat Tavern, and he motioned for them to be seated before beginning his brief. Drurginz agents had recently acquired information regarding an adventuring Company known as the , recently returned from a disastrous expedition to Chult. Only two company members had survived the voyage - two men named Aganon and Eldos. These men, he had learned, were in negotiations with Ersgul for the sale of the exotic goods they had brought back from Chult, and that an exchange had been arranged in the City sewers for the next day. Thagdul was sure, however, that the exchange would in fact be an ambush, and that the survivors of the Southern Star would not get out alive. The Southern Star had been negotiating with a man by the name of Balkine Adard, who had been posing as a fence for magical goods. This Adard, Thagdul explained, was in fact one of a band of Ersgul enforcers that were known as the , and not only were he and his brother Lucien murderers - they were also lycanthropes.

It was in his interest, Thagdul said, to have the ambush stopped.

When Ellyth began to question the man's motives, he silenced her with a wave. He was not doing this out of the goodness of his own heart. He had his own interest in the Company of the Southern Star, or, more specifically, in their cargo. He wished to obtain six vials of what he described as \"grey liquid\" which he knew to be in the possession of the Southern Star. The Red Herrings were to foil the ambush and secure the vials - how they did so was up to them. As before, the Company of the Red Herring accepted the mission - Thagdul had satisfied them that the mission they were running was a worthy one, and their consciences didn't push the issue.

Garth, however, had another matter to raise with Thagdul before the party took its leave - something that had been nagging him for the last tenday. He told Thagdul about his encounter with Dally, and how he had revealed the Red Herrings' dealings with Drurginz to the strang elven wizard. The confession plainly irritated Thagdul, but he reacted calmly. Narrowing his eyes, he told Garth that he was going to probe his mind to see if any damage had been done, and muttered a quick incantation. Ellyth and Jafar recognized that their mysterious patron had done no more than cast detect magic, but said nothing. After carefully looking the young rogue over, Thagdul relaxed and pronounced that no harm had been done. Garth was free of any magical influence.

=== The Ambush ===
450px|thumb|The watery grave of the Southern Star
Shortly before noon the next day, the Company of the Red Herring found themselves at the sewer entrance in Castle Ward that lies near Crossbow Lane. The entrance was locked, but this proved no barrier to the company of seasoned rogues. Using a small hammer, Garth knocked the hinge pins out of the rusted doors, opening them in seconds. Following Thagdul's directions, they followed the tunnel a short distance before reaching the entrance to what appeared to be a sub-chamber that appeared to pre-date the sewers. It was in fact a disused temple, and a cursory study revealed that it had once been a place of worship to the dead god, Bane. Garth was not impressed.

\"This has got to be the stupidest place to do business that I have ever heard of.\"

After surveying the layout of the temple, the companions put their plan into action, hiding in the near darkness of a tunnel leading off to the east. Soon, they heard footsteps echoing through the sewer chambers, and before long a pair of cautious and worn-looking men walked slowly into the temple. The shorter one had one arm in a sling, but carried a naked dirk in the other, while his taller companion, one eye covered with a ragged patch, carried a large haversack on his back with a large two-handed sword in his hands. As the two men entered from the north, another two figures - one short and rodentine, the other hunched over and cloaked in a dark robe that masked his face - entered from the south. The two parties eyed each other before the man with the sling spoke.

\"Are you Balkine? I'm Eldos.\"

The rodentine fellow smiled. \"No, in fact, you're dead.\"

In less time than it took to blink an eye, the rat-like man's body stretched hideously into the form of a were-rat and he pounced on the wounded man. At the same time, a series of magic missiles flew from the cloaked figure's outstretched arms, slamming into the chest of man with the eyepatch. A shrill cry came from the southern tunnel, and three more ratmen scampered through, making straight for the beleaguered men, as giant rats poured out of every grate and pipe in sight.

The attack came so quickly that the Red Herrings were caught off guard - the Brothers Adard had acted more quickly than they were expecting. The companions quickly charged into the temple, but they were too late - they engaged the enemy just in time to see Balkine rip the throat out of Eldos and Aganon succumb to the fell magics of the hunchback. Still, the Red Herrings did have surprise on their side, and the rat-things, not expecting this newfound opposition, were ill-disposed to face it. In short order, the three were-rats that had bounded out of the tunnel to join the Brothers Adard had been dispatched, as well as innumerable rats, but the brothers themselves escaped.

=== Rats ===

The Southern Star had perished, but the villainous Adards hadn't had time to secure their cargo. Working quickly, Esperel and Garth secured the backpacks from the two dead men, but as they did so Tomas heard a strange rumbling coming from the southern entrance. Sensing danger, the companions quickly finished their labours as the rumbling rapidly became louder and louder, joined by an almost deafening high-pitched chittering. Garth threw the flashlamp to Tomas, who stood, staring at the darkened opening. Tomas fumbled the catch, and the flashlamp rolled into the opening, its ray of light reflecting in thousands of bright red eyes that were advancing quickly on the temple.

\"Tomas! Let's get out of here!\"

But Tomas refused to leave the valuable flashlamp behind (a magical artifact!), and made a grab for it as the others were heading out the opposite entrance. The poor fisherman was too slow, however, and he was overwhelmed by a horde of rats out of some scullery maid's nightmare. Cursing their companions' simplemindedness, Esperel and Garth waded into the plague of rodents and dragged their friend to safety. The party made a hurried and bloody escape to the surface, then back to Garth's place.

Thagdul was waiting for them when they returned, but their patron made no mention of their battered appearance. When shown the haversack that the Company had recovered, he motioned for it to be given to him, then reached in and pulled out six vials of a greyish liquid which he secured in a satchel at his side. Rising from the table, he congratulated the Red Herrings and told them that they were welcome to whatever other treasures they may have recovered. With this, he took his leave of the exhausted companions.

The Red Herrings were not too exhausted to set to itemizing and divvying out the swag they had recovered, however. Few felt any guilt at assuming ownership of the \"estate\" of the Company of the Southern Star - they'd tried to help the poor fellows, after all. It was only fair that they be recompensed. Inside the haversack were the following items:

*a wooden box weighing 20 pounds or so
*A locked book, and
*2 potions

While the items above would prove to be of lasting importance for the companions, it turned out that the haversack itself was enchanted, and could hold much more than it outside appearances would suggest. What's more, regardless of how it was packed, the item that one wanted would infallibly be found at the top of the pack - a very useful enchantment.

The box, when opened, seemed to hold nothing but dust, but Ellyth and Jafar knew right away that whatever this dust was, it was of a highly magical nature. Similarly, the locked book and potions were enchanted, and it was agreed that the Company would have them identified on the morrow.

== 27 Mirtul - The Exotic Fish Retrieval Company==

=== More on the Reprobates ===
300px|thumb|The Adard Menace
Despite, or perhaps owing to, their exertions the previous day, both Raven and Tomas awoke early on 27 Mirtul. Raven, who had returned to his family's villa after seeing his new comrades safely back to Dock Ward, paid a visit to his 'uncle' Morgunn, to ask about the Brothers Adard and the Reprobates. Something about witnessing Balkine Adard's monstrous transformation in the sewers had affronted his understanding of all that was natural. Surely lycanthropy was a blasphemy against Mielikki herself!

Lathkule, it turned out, knew all too well the burning passion that had been awakened in his young cousin, and urged him to continue to devote himself to purging Faerûn of such lycanthropic abominations, and the Brothers Adard would prove a good starting point. The rise of the Reprobates had not escaped the watchful eyes of Morgunn and his colleagues among the  and he offered Raven a brief dossier on the creatures. The Woeful Company of Reprobates, among whose members the Brothers Adard were both counted, were an exclusively demi-human mercenary organization, though the Adards were the only lycanthropes as far as Lathkule knew. Of late, they associated themselves with a Zhentish trading company called Ersgul, and had started running slaves in Undermountain for the same. They were based out of a safehouse somewhere in Dock Ward, but could inevitably be found hanging out at the Bloody Fist, a rough tavern near the Docks. Thanking his uncle, Raven spent the rest of his day resting at the Raventree villa, cleaning his uncle's sword, and dreaming of killing lycanthropes.

Tomas had also risen early to take a shift working at one of the Drurginz warehouses. There, under the direction of a mean-looking clerk named Welland of Hillsfar, he spent the day unloading several shipments that had been ordered by Ildar Orsabbas’. The work is hot, heavy and difficult, but he receives little thanks when it is done. At least his mother will be safe.

=== Company Business ===

Rested but not recovered, the rest of the companions spent the following day on Company business. It was decided that the Company would purchase Garth's house, which had become the de facto base of operations for the Red Herrings. While Garth saw to the legalities of the transfer - signing over the deed as Stugard Ashe, of the 'Exotic Fish Retrieval Company' - Esperel, who had appointed himself the Company's security expert, spent the day planning ways to secure the new headquarters and purchasing supplies for that purpose, including a steel door, fastened by a lock of excellent quality, which he commissioned from his contacts at the Finesmith's Guild. He also purchased a sturdy chest that all hoped would soon be filled with riches. Alas, it was not to prove strong enough.

Esperel also made a real estate transaction that day. However, while Garth was buying into the Company with everything he owned, Esperel was hedging his bets - as yet unsure about his future as a \"company man\". Taking out a personal loan with Mirt the Moneylender, Esperel (under the guise of \"Sylvanus Starmelder, Son of Aliforus\" purchased a two-story workshop, which he also secured against intrusion using the products of his colleagues at the guild.

=== The Heart of the Earth ===

Meanwhile, Ellyth and Jafar paid a visit to a local sage by the name of Kappiyan Flurmastyr, who specialized in the sale and handling of enchanted items both familiar and exotic. He is able to tell the two mages that the book they have found is in fact a spellbook written by a wizard whose name - as near as he can tell, given the strange character of the runes with which it is marked - is Kalug'dun. He is also able to tell Jafar that one of the spells in the book is a rare variation on an insect swarm spell. While the other items - the haversack and potions - are of some practical use, the sage stops short when he comes to the box of dust.

\"Is this what I think it is?\" he asks his two clients, eyes wide in surprise?

\"We don't know old man! That's why we're asking you!\" snapped Jafar.

Narrowing his eyes at the young wizard's sharp tone, Flurmastyr's voice took on a conspiratorial air. \"These are shavings from the Heart of the Earth - a rock formation said to exist in the heart of the jungles of Chult. The rock has intense mystical properties, and it is believed by scholars to have fallen from the stars.\"

The shavings, the sage continued, were extremely powerful reagents used in magical enchantments, and would no doubt attract a lot of attention should their existence become known. The old man began to ask where the shavings had come from, but stopped himself short. \"Better I don't know, I suppose. Just take care of these, and let me know if you're ever interested in selling.\"

Leaving the shop, Ellyth and Jafar went quickly back to Garth's - or rather, to Red Herring Headquarters - to secure their prize in the chest that Esperel had purchased. Jafar and Ellyth devised a series of magical wards which they placed on the chest, and it was then buried in a corner of the house.

=== The Rumour Mill ===

While the magic-users took care of the protection, Garth and Esperel returned to the streets to glean some information. Garth, in particular, was eager to find a fence that could move rare and valuable items and artifacts without asking too many questions. He took on a new identity - a rough and ready Amnite sailor named Brass Tharg who had some ill-gotten magic items to get rid of - and set about asking some careful questions to the sort of people who might know these things. He discovered that an elf named Mas'Illyn Vosch was a fence who operated out of the Elfstone Tavern, specializing in high-end stuff. Unfortunately, he soon found, Vosch was currently providing these services for Company Ersgul.

Esperel, on the other hand, was to find that the Company of the Red Herring was building a reputation among the citizens of Dock Ward - and a not entirely untarnished one at that. Not only was the Company of the Red Herring popularly thought of as a \"bunch of thugs who do legwork for Company Drurginz\" (which Esperel supposed was true enough, from a limited point of view), some even thought the organization was a cover for Zhentarim agents. Another rumour - perhaps supported by the fact that Raven had now bought into the company - was that the \"the whole lot of them were nobles, slumming it.\"

Disturbingly, however, one rumour proved the strongest - and its recent coinage could only mean that someone was spreading it on purpose and with ill intent. The Company of the Red Herring, it was said by many in disgust, had \"put the drop on the Company of the Southern Star\" the day before.
