== Greengrass, 1371 - A Story of Swords ==
The origins of the Company of the Red Herring are best told by Jalthor Murlyn, Captain of the Night Watch, Dock Ward in his report on the activities of Company of the Red Herring:

left|thumb|200px|Captain Jalthor Murlyn
The only knowledge I have of the Company of the Red Herring concerns the months between Greengrass and Harvestide of 1371. They did the City a couple of favours, but on the whole we’d have been better off without them.

From what I understand, the company centred on a Dock Ward orphan that had had more than a few run-ins with the Watch in my patrol days. Garth Shanks was always something of a character, as I recall, getting up to mischief with Szarah Mudge’s boy, Tomas Quoyle - that is, when he wasn’t cutting purses in the markets. He was always one to put on a show whenever anyone the authorities had any questions. There was one point where he cleaned himself up enough to land a job at a respectable (if not strictly legitimate) shop as an errand boy. Do you know Serpentil’s Books and Folios? Jannaxil Serpentil sells maps and books, usually authentic, to a fairly large customer base, but most of his business is on the shady side, dealing intelligence and worse to the usual suspects. From what I understand, Serpentil was dealing fairly often in those days with some elf-operation called Company Dalael.

I imagine they were circumspect enough that Shanks never got beyond the usual suspicions that anyone of at least moderate intelligence would have when dealing with Serpentil. One of Shanks’ first jobs was connected to this Dalael business – a ‘delivery’ to a house in Castle Ward. The package turned out to be an incendiary device of some kind, and I hear the hit really got under the skin of one of the Zhent traders active in the city at that time. As it happens, the boy was shaken up by the blast, and he was present at Serpentil's when the trader in question - a tall, dark fellow from the Moonsea, I'm told - stormed into the shop, hell bent on destruction. That was pretty much it for Garth’s association with Serpentil, but not with the Moonsea trader.

===Hook...===
The individuals that would form the Company of the Red Herring came together following that business. Ildar Orsabbas was a fop who owned a Sea Ward trade outlet called Orsabbas’ Fine Imports. The idiot fancied himself a bit of a crime boss, calling himself the “Duke of Darkness” or something equally moronic. We were on to the operation he ran, but he more often than not pointed us in the direction of more useful quarry. At any rate, he had a pet elf named Ellyth, an ambitious piece I remember, if misguided in her choice of mentors.

I understand that she was there on Greengrass Eve, when Orsabbas met with a rogue by the name of Teskul over dinner. Orsabbas was selling Teskul some information concerning a shipment of swords unlawfully enchanted by a Banite cult in Luskan. The shipment was moving out of the Helmtar Warehouse in Dock Ward on Greengrass night – the swords, in two crates packed with sugar cane, were going to move under the cover of the celebration. A dragon float would keep the crowd's attention while the move went down. Teskul said he wasn’t interested, but Ellyth had been paying attention. She'd heard about the Helmfasts from one of her ... colleagues – a bit named Ezrelda – and like the rookie she was, she came right out and offered to put together some people for the job. That’s really where it all started. Ellyth got in touch with her uncle and her crazy cousin Esperel, Esperel got a hold of Garth, and Garth brought in Tomas. I should stop here to point out that unlike the rest of this lot, Ellyth's uncle was a good man, for an elf - a bladesinger named Gilthanas. From what I understand, he was reluctant to get into this business from the get-go, but I think he felt some obligation to protect his wayward niece. It's a damn shame that he came to a bad end not too long after that.

===Line...===
Tomas told me all this, or most of it, at least, shortly before his own death some months later. Teskul’s boss had arranged the shipment with Chuldan Helmstar, who manages a warehouse in Dock Ward. Helmstar's place is usually pretty well looked after, good light, guards on the roof, etc. Won’t keep out the mages, but it’s good enough to stop hoods like Garth and Esperel. The logs indicate that the cargo was to be loaded on to a privately-owned cog called The Misty. The five of them decided to ambush the shipment and make a switch during the commotion of the festival. It wasn’t hard for a couple of Dock Ward lads to pull together a wagon, some crates and a mule team, and at sundown, when the shipment moved out, they put the kibosh on the guards and porters, knocking them out to a man. From what Tomas told me, it worked like clockwork - better than any gnomish timepiece I've ever heard of, in fact. They made the switch and went back to Garth’s house without any trouble. At least, no immediate trouble. This is all a prelude, remember, to the real show.

Y'see, what Orsabbas didn’t know, and Ellyth didn’t find out until too late, was that it was Teskul’s boss who had arranged the shipment. Teskul's boss also happened to be the man whose operation Garth had unwittingly fire-bombed for Serpentil. They say Beshaba is just Tymora on a bad day.

===... and Sinker===
thumb|200 px|What Ellyth saw that Greengrass Night
Once they got back to Garth’s house, that’s when the sloop hit the squall. They were so excited about the heist, that there wasn’t much more than a token attempt to keep their guard up. They sent Esperel up to the roof to keep watch, but he'd barely got past the eaves when someone put the drop on him. He shook off some kind of paralysis spell, but got knocked on the head and that was that. The rest of the group them didn’t have much to say to their door being beat down by four thugs. Right behind them were Teskul and his boss, the Moonsea trader I told you about. He was a Zhent, and his name, I later found out, was Thagdul. He was the factor for the Drurginz Trading Company, a semi-legit operation with connections to the Moonsea region, but we know that they probably ran contraband through Skullport more often than not. It turned out that he’d had Teskul build up about as much of a dossier on this bunch as could be had.

With this bunch, you’d have expected a hopeless fight to break out. But Ellyth saw something in the doorway that pretty much took the fight out of them that day.

Thagdul knew he had them over a barrel. It didn’t take much convincing to get Ellyth and Garth to agree to run a few ‘errands’ for Drurginz as a way to mend fences, doing some corporate sabotage on another Zhent organization in the city, Company Ersgul. Tomas and Esperel followed suit, but Gilthanas knew the scene and wouldn’t have any of it. No one ever proved that Gilthanas’ death had anything to do with the Zhents, but I’m a druid if it didn't.

== 10 Mirtul - First Mission: The North Ward Inferno ==

The reports which follow have been compiled from the memoirs, recollections and stories of the various parties - some heroic and some not so - which took up arms and common interest with Garth Shanks during the tumultuous months and years that followed the fateful encounter with Thagdul. The veracity of this information cannot be attested to with certainty, but barring divine intervention, it is the best that your humble scribe can offer.

=== Paying Dues ===
The characters had much to think about during the tenday that followed this encounter. Disillusioned with his short-lived attempt at making an honest living after his experience at Serpentil’s Folios, Garth rethought his get-rich-yesterday scheme and took up one of  Waterdeep's oldest professions - he became a Dock Ward landlord. Only a day later, his new home was graced with its first tenant, a Calishite scholar recently arrived in the City of Splendours. This man, Jafar, was a wizard by trade and decided to make Waterdeep his home for a time. To that end, he had been sponsored to join the Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors by a local guild-member, Orilar Thanas, and had been assigned to the City's Firewatch. In the months that were to follow, Jafar's association with the Firewatch would prove to be a cruel irony for the good citizens of Waterdeep, but this tale will be told in good time. Garth's friend Esperel also found sponsorship into one of the city guilds, joining the  under Master Hallthor Duzmund. This association, too, was ill-advised from the beginning, but in Esperel's case, no one expected any better.

=== Repaying Debts ===

On the afternoon of the tenth of Mirtul, Ellyth, Esperel, Garth and Tomas received invitations from Thagdul to meet him for dinner at the Thirsty Throat Tavern, where they would discuss their outstanding 'debt' to him. Unexpectedly for the companions, Jafar also received summons from the Moonsea man, as it seemed he was already in the trader’s debt for reasons of his own. Oddly, few remarked on this coincidence, and perhaps even moreso, none investigated it. In any case, Jafar kept quiet. When questioned about the absence of Gilthanas, Thagdul vaguely indicated that the bladesinger had made amends independently, and in any case, had recently \"left Waterdeep for good\".

After a splendid repast, Thagdul laid out his proposal: to clear the debts they owed him, the five were to burn down a certain house in North Ward. As an added incentive to the would-be thieves, Thagdul also offered ‘salvage rights’ on the contents of the building.

Despite Ellyth’s odd suspicion that Thagdul may have been a dragon in human guise, the party reluctantly agreed to the trader's proposal. A ‘diversion’ had been arranged to occupy the City Firewatch and the City Watch at half past ten bells that very evening. On a map he produced, Thagdul indicated a building in North Ward, on the block bounded by the High Road and Sulmor, Delzorin and Vhezoar Streets, and indicated that further instructions were awaiting them in a nearby sewer entrance.

After dinner, the party split up to prepare themselves. While Tomas returned to Dock Ward to retrieve his armour, Esperel and Garth reconnoitered their supposed target. The building in question was quite large, and four storeys high. Discreetly casing the property from a safe distance, they were able to detect movement on the upper storeys, indicating that the house was not abandoned, but an active concern. While this happened, Ellyth was discreetly making enquiries about Thagdul among her contacts at a local gambling den, The Gentle Mermaid. Unfortunately, her mark, a noble named Arsten Thunderstaff II, had no apparent knowledge of the Moonsea trader or his operation, and to soothe her disappointment at his ignorance, she convinced the fop to cut her in on his winnings.

=== Burning Down the House ===

thumb|right|Attacked by watchspiders (image from TSR 01109 - City of Splendours)
At ten bells, the party rendezvoused at the sewer entrance, where they found a crate which contained five detonation devices and what appeared to be a map of the building. Inside the tunnel which opened onto the city's sewer system, Esperel located a hidden passage that led to a chamber directly below the building. The room contained the ruins of several statues, upon which Ellyth sensed the residual traces of some enchantment, but no obvious doors. However, it didn't take Esperel long to uncover a secret entrance that seemed to lead to the building above. Unfortunately, their arrival had been anticipated - as the door was opened, three figures (one of whom was a drow) burst in on them, just as two spider-like creatures attacked from behind.

Thinking quickly, Esperel managed to wedge the door shut on the dark elf, and turned to confront the two remaining men with Ellyth and Jafar. Garth and Tomas, meanwhile, faced off against the watchspiders. Although Tomas took a poisonous bite on the forearm from one of the beasts, he was not severely hurt, and he and Garth made short work of the vicious arachnids. Seeing this, the party's remaining adversaries surrendered, begging for mercy. The men were knocked unconscious, then bound and gagged.

When the party turned to open the door again, Esperel found that it had been jammed somehow from the other side, but Tomas was able to bash it open, and the adjoining chamber was revealed to be a storeroom of crates and kegs, scattered about with books and scrolls. Ellyth and Jafar set to examining the room’s contents while the others pursued the fleeing drow. Tomas forced open a second blocked door, which opened into a room containing the smashed remains of a jade spider statue. As they entered, their quarry darted out a door opposite, and Esperel and Tomas quickly gave chase up a flight of stairs, leaving Garth to inspect the room. Upstairs, however, the pursuit came to a sudden halt as the two encountered a group of surprised-looking men, and hastily retreated back down the steps. Luckily, only one man pursued – attacking Esperel as Tomas set an explosive charge on the stairwell. The elf was soon able to force his opponent back upstairs, as Garth emerged from the cellar. Together, the three made their way up the staircase, splitting up to set the remaining charges – Garth on the second floor, Esperel on the third, and Tomas pursuing the retreating man to the fourth.

=== A Frightening Encounter ===

thumb|right|A floating menace (image from TSR 02109 - Monstrous Compendium III)
Garth found the second storey to have been recently vacated (and possibly ransacked), and after setting his charge, he made his exit by climbing out a window into a nearby tree. Searching the third storey, similarly ransacked, Esperel came across two rune-covered porcelain cases, which despite their apparent value, remained oddly untouched. Sensing danger, he left them be, setting his charge then retreating downstairs. A floor above, Tomas had managed to close in on his quarry, whom he found pounding on a door, yelling for  “Vuldan!”. Seeing Tomas, the man fled around a corner, but as the young fisherman made to give chase, the door the man had been pounding on quietly opened and a strangely calm voice inquired \"What is going on?\"

Turning to face the voice, Tomas was horrified to see what looked like a beholder floating in mid-air behind him. With unnerving politeness, the creature requested that there be no violence. Tomas, fear-stricken, broke down and warned the creature of the impending immolation, but 'Vuldan' (whatever he was) appeared unconcerned, and drifted nonchalantly back into its room. During this encounter, the man he had been chasing had dashed out onto a balcony, but Tomas was too rattled to continue his pursuit. After nervously setting his charge right beside Vuldan's door, he returned downstairs to rejoin his comrades.

In the storeroom below, all were accounted for save Garth. While Tomas argued for going up to find his friend, Jafar, Ellyth and Esperel argued that such action was foolhardy and much too dangerous: the explosives would soon go off, and Garth, realizing this, had probably found his own way out. Hoping this was the case, Tomas joined the rest of the party in their efforts to move what swag they can into the sewer entrance before the bombs detonated. As the last of the easily moved items was shifted into the sub-cellar, a great explosion shook the brickworks above and dust rained down on the party. The mission had been a success.

=== A Significant Find ===

Soon after the explosion, Garth rejoined his comrades from the other side of the sewer entrance, saying that he had watched from a safe distance and reporting that the building was going up in flames as he spoke. While he and the others took an inventory of their ‘salvage’, Tomas returned to Dock Ward to fetch a cart with which they might transport the haul, which consisted of:

* 1 exotic dagger (upon which Jafar identifies a drow enchantment)
* 2 hand crossbows
* 2 stone heads (identified by Jafar as former golem heads)
* 88 lbs. of jade (lightly enchanted – likely a former golem)
* A sealed scroll, written in what Jafar recognizes as the drow tongue, though he can't read it
* 2 journals, also in drow
* 40 books on the subject of Cormyr
* Selections from The Draconomicon concerning \"Kaldunh, the Deeping Dragon\", annotated in drow

== 11 Mirtul - Among Thieves ==
200px|right
The following day, Jafar offered to take the journals, the excerpt from the Draconomicon and the scroll to an acquaintance by the name of Feldon Azadand at the Watchful Order to be identified. Feldon, it turned out, could not read the writings either, but he was able to confirm that they were written in the drow tonuge, and notes that the journals appeared to cover a period dating from approximately two years earlier up until the previous month. Jafar stashee the books and scroll in his locker before returning home.

Ellyth, meanwhile, made contact with (and charmed) a fence by the name of Azadon, with whom she discussed the possibility of moving some of the stolen properties. Similarly, under the alias of Farwater, Esperel contacted the fence Turith Maylar at the Copper Cup. The two quickly came to an agreement, and Maylar offered 300 gp for the jade recovered from the previous day's efforts.

Meanwhile, however, Tomas had discovered that Thagdul’s ‘diversion’ had included setting fire to portions of Dock Ward, where many of his friends and acquaintances were living. Guiltily, he spent the day helping clear the wreckage, then convinced some drunken sailors that they had all gotten pissed together the night before as an alibi (which no one doubted).

=== The Grey Rogue ===

At the end of the day, the party (minus Garth) met at the Thirsty Throat for dinner. Jafar - suddenly flush with capital - magnanimously paid the tab for all, and related Azadand's findings and also mentioning that the books are currently under study. During dinner, Ellyth's eye was caught by Teskul was watching them from a nearby table. He approached the party and passed on the message that Thagdul was pleased with their work, then grey rogue took his leave. Teskul's features, it was noted, were quite similar to those of Thagdul - perhaps both hailed from the same part of the Realms. After the man had departed, Esperel decided to follow him. Despite his best efforts, however, the elf lost his quarry somewhere between Samarin’s Way and Golden Serpent St. in North Ward, but as he made to return to Dock Ward, however, Esperel had the distinct feeling that he had himself begun to be tailed. Through several canny dodges and redirects, he managed to trick this new pursuer and turn the chase around, but he soon lost this new quarry without being able to get any clear sight of him.

Back a the Throat, the remaining three party members decided (at Jafar's insistence) to unload the books at Serpentil’s Books and Folios. Jafar had brought the selections from the Draconomicon as a sample, and while Tomas had doubts about selling the books,  Jafar and Ellyth paid little attention to the illiterate dullard.

=== Crooked Fences Make Crooked Neighbours ===
frame|250px|Jannaxil Serpentil
At Serpentil’s, the three interrupted a conversation between Jannaxil and two visitors - a sharp-featured merchant and a strange-looking elf. The former, it was hard to miss, was dressed almost exactly like Thagdul, though with longer hair and a beholder staff similar to but slightly shorter than that of Thagdul. The elf seemed young (perhaps about 120, thought Ellyth - though she would later voice her suspicions that he was not what he seemed) and was dressed in a purple chemise with a silk cloak and thick necklace. With the arrival of the three companions, Jannaxil made his excuses to his guests, and bade Jafar to sit while the merchant and the elf moved off to the corner of the shop. As Jafar began negotiating with the pinch-faced shopkeeper, Ellyth eyed off the strangers, who in return seemed to be paying an undue amount of attention to her and her friends. She was disturbed to overhear the elf whisper softly to his partner, “Will she ever fetch a fine price down below!”. Catching her eye, he smiled malevolently and winked.

The elf's countenance changed abruptly, however, when he saw Jafar produce the Draconomicon, and he became visibly irate, but remained silent. Paying no heed to his guest's consternation, Jannaxil calmly expressed his interest to Jafar, urging him and his companions to bring in their goods. Jafar somewhat condescendingly ordered Tomas and Ellyth to fetch the books (which had been left behind), and indicated that he would stay to converse with Jannaxil. As the she and the young Docksider left the shop, however, Ellyth overheard an exchange between Jafar and the elf that was to provide much food for thought in the months and years to come. Evidently chafing under the elf's glare, Jafar muttered \"I'm working on it!\", to which the elf, maintaining a hard gaze on the uncomfortable Calishite, replied, \"You’d better be.”

Ellyth easily managed to swindle a wagon from some young Dock Ward carters, then she and Tomas went to meet Garth and collect the cache of books. Together, the three loaded the wagon and returned to Serpentil’s to meet Jafar. En route, however, the group was accosted by a squad of guards led by a Court Magistrate named Thuman, accompanied by a watchwizard and the elven stranger from Serpentil's. \"That's them,\" confirmed the elf, glowering at Ellyth. \"Check the books!\" At Thuman's nod, the watch-wizard muttered an incantation. Suddenly, each and every book on the wagon began to glow with a magical sigil - a sigil which happened to be identical to that inscribed on an amulet which the elf produced from around his neck. Thuman frowned, and as the elf looked on, sneering at the companions, he charged them with theft and the transportation and attempted sale of stolen property. Before he could add any further charges, Ellyth began pleading, turning the full force of her charms on the blustery Magistrate. Thinking quickly, she implicated the fence, Azadon, as the true villain behind the operation and convinced the magistrate of her innocence and that of her friends, obvious victims in a criminal conspiracy. Against all odds, the bluff worked. With an appraising leer, Thuman said he would let the companions off with 'a warning' - provided they stayed in Waterdeep. This lenience appeared to irritate the elf to no end, but Thuman appeared not to notice. The books and wagon were confiscated (and a receipt given), whereupon the trio returned to Serpentil’s to inform Jafar and the shopkeeper of what had happened.

Serpentil expressed concern at the companions' misfortune, but little initiative.

=== Corruption and Lies ===

Soon after their return that evening to Garth's place, the party received a visit from Thagdul, who had somehow learned of the group’s predicament. Thagdul had some knowledge of the strange elf, he said, but had a particular familiarity with the elf's companion (Thagdul's near-double). This man's name, he told the party, was Aleshkun, the director of a trading interest known as Company Ersgul. Furthermore, he confided, Serpentil himself was an Ersgul agent, and had more than likely set them up - he knew for a fact that Magistrate Thuman was on the Ersgul payroll. To ease the companions' worries at this revelation, Thagdul raised a hand. He was was not without his own friends in the Court, he said. With a cool, calculating look around the room, he offered to save the companions from any \"legal hassle\" in exchange for their doing him another \"favour\". With reluctance, all accepted the man's terms.

After the Moonsea man left, tempers ran high. Tomas began drinking, and soon started cursing out Jafar as a sneak. The young fisherman had spent three years on the coasts of Calimshan and Amn, and he was bloody sure that the while his so-called colleague may well have been some kind of foreigner, \"he warn't no Calishite\". In fact, didn't Jafar look a lot like the companions \"new friends\" Aleshkun, Teskul and Thagdul? As the room turned against him, Jafar quickly admitted the prevarication, but reassured his companions that there was good reason for his disguise. In any case, he said, it had no bearing on the affairs of the companions, and he would prefer that they not press him on it for now. All would be revealed in time. This managed to calm the young drunkard down, but in doing so Jafar had slipped up with another lie, which Ellyth then called him on. Exasperated, Jafar admitted that yes, the drow writings that they had found were in fact just sitting in his locker at the Watchful Order, not \"being studied\" as he had said earlier.

=== Burgled, Swindled, Assaulted and Drugged ===
thumb|300px|Esperel evades his assailants
When Ellyth finally returned home to her rooms at the Gentle Mermaid late that night, she learned from the bouncers that thieves had attempted to break into her room. The attempt had been unsuccessful, but the perpetrators had escaped. Likewise, Tomas found that his house had been ransacked, and that his dear mother had been assaulted during the burglary. Except for two harbour moons he had buried in the dirt floor under his bed, everything of value in the fisherman's house (not that there was much to begin with) had been stolen, including his grandfather’s spyglass.

During the night, Garth and Esperel had taken it upon themselves to case out Serpentil’s Books and Folios, but on the way to the shop, the two made a change of plan, and Esperel doubled back to Garth’s house. Tomas, too, after having seen to his mother’s safety, ran back to Garth’s, where he awoke Jafar and told the mage of the break in. A burglary on Tomas' household was strange to say the least, and the only explanation the two could come up with was that someone had been looking for the items they had taken from the house in North Ward the previous night.

Sensing danger, Jafar returned to the offices of the Watchful Order to make sure his own stash was secure. Meanwhile, Esperel came back to Garth's, where he found Tomas guarding the jade. The two decided that it would be best to sell the ill-gotten treasure immediately, rather than risk its being stolen. They then split up - Tomas carrying a decoy along the main streets, while Esperel took the real swag through the alleys to the Copper Cup. It was never certain that the ruse worked, for both were attacked as they made their way through the dark Dock Ward night. Esperel soon found himself running from two pursuers, whom he avoided by taking to the roofs of nearby houses and littering the alleys below with caltrops. Esperel soon found himself at the Cup, where he sold the jade to Maylar for 54 pp (an extra ten percent levied by Maylar for expediting the exchange), then settled in to wait for Tomas - but the young Dockman never showed up. After an hour, the elf set out into the night to find his friend, but his attempts proved unsuccessful.

Tomas had fared less well on his journey than his nimble companion. En route to the Cup he had been accosted by two sword-wielding thugs who had demanded that he turn over his sack. Tomas responded by throwing the dummy rucksack at them, then drawing his sword. Although he quickly gained the upper hand - bringing one assailant down with his blade and knocking the other to the cobblestones - a third party hit him in the neck with a drugged dart. Calling out for the guard, Tomas fell unconscious onto street, and knew no more.

== 12 Mirtul - Second Mission: Rescue in the Sewers ==

Lathander's rays broke over the city the next morning, streaming in through the eastern window of Dock Ward guard tower and into the bleary eyes of Tomas, who regained consciousness in what appeared to be a prison cell. Standing over him as he raised a groggy head were the grizzled faces of Watch Captain Jalthor Murlyn (whom Tomas knew from childhood as a friend of his father's) and the shifty, rodentine face of a scruffy halfling by the name of Egan. Without so much as a \"good morning\", Murlyn introduced Egan as a witness to the attack that had occurred the night before, then proceeded to interrogate Tomas on what he'd been getting up to - making Tomas feel for all the world like it had been his own fault that he'd gotten assaulted and drugged. Warning the boy that he'd best keep to the straight and narrow, Murlyn released Tomas, and the young fisherman made his way back to Garth's to find out what had happened the night before.

=== Company of the Red Herring ===
thumb|Garth's sketch of the insignia of the Company of the Red Herring
Returning to Garth's, Tomas found the rest of his companions there hotly discussing the break-ins of the previous evening. Garth's house, it turned out, had been the only house to escape invasion - Tomas, Ellyth and Esperel all reporting either break-ins or attempted burglaries. It was on this fateful morning - 12 Mirtul, 1371 - that Garth Shanks proposed that the five companions incorporate as the Company of the Red Herring, using the monies that Esperel had recouped from his fence the night before as startup capital. A company, Garth proposed, would give the companions an edge of professionalism that would allow them to deal with such invasions as they had experienced. Furthermore, it would normalize their relationship with Thagdul and his company, and besides he had always wanted to form a company. The proposal was taken up by all, and over the course of the morning a contract and charter was pounded out by the five companions. Upon the finalization of the document, the five companions - Ellyth, Esperel, Garth, Tomas and Jafar - decided to celebrate by going to lunch at the Thirsty Throat Tavern.

=== Scuffle at the Slide ===

The companions' merriment, however, was cut short (inevitably, it seemed) when their celebrations were interrupted by the arrival of Thagdul, who appeared at the table without anyone having noticed him enter the tavern. It was time to make good on their debt, the dark man intoned, cutting short a joke Tomas had been telling about a Calishite pirate-girl he had known. Aleshkun's company Ersgul, he informed them, was going to be making a \"shipment\" into the smuggler's stronghold known as Skullport - a den of vice that was rumoured to exist in the caves below the city. The \"Company of the Red Herring\" he said bemusedly, was to stop this shipment by any means they see fit. He then produced directions to an entrance to the city sewers known as \"The Slide\", and a map to an entrance to Undermountain which was located in the sewers. Informing the party of the time at which they could expect the Ersgul shipment to take place, Thagdul bid them good luck and departed without any further word. As usual, it seemed like the man was holding back information that might have proved relevant, but the companions were too excited at the prospect of finding an entrance to Undermountain - untold riches! - to quibble.

The shipment was to take place that afternoon, and the companions quickly armed themselves - Tomas strapping on armour, Ellyth grabbing her bow - then proceeded to the Slide, quickly drawing up a plan for an ambush. Before long, the party was in position in the sewers. Taking up positions, they waited - and did not do so for long. Two men with magical light-tubes were soon seen to be making their way towards the antechamber where the companions were laying in wait. Almost immediately, however, the carefully (if quickly) laid plan went awry. As the two men entered the chamber, Tomas and Esperel take out one, while Ellyth made short work of another. Commotion could be heard from behind them, however, and the Company then ran out into the sewer proper, where two more men were waiting. Ellyth and Jafar were the first out the door, and as Ellyth knocked one of the two, Jafar cast some manner of spell (no one could see any visible effect). The fourth man, brandishing a mean-looking axe, charged Jafar, but Ellyth quickly jumped to the ceiling ladder above the sewage canal and put an arrow into the fellow, who fell into Esperel’s caltrops, then into the sewage, where Ellyth hit him with another arrow. Tomas, emerging from the antechamber, was suddenly engulfed in magical darkness, and attacked by another figure. Swinging wildly, the young man felt his blade cut into his attacker, and his companions soon noted the mangled body of a drow - head and shoulders nearly cleaved from its body - fall out of the magical darkness into the sewage.

=== The \"Shipment\" Secured ===

As suddenly as the chaos had begun, it was over, and when their breathing calmed, the party realized that the silence of the sewer tunnel was not, in fact, unbroken. The whimpering of what sounded like children could be heard, and as Garth was about to call out to Tomas, his friend walked out of the darkened area, leading four little girls - the \"shipment\" that Thagdul had ordered them to stop.

From the bodies of the men, the Company recovered two backpacks, full of spices and spell components, respectively, then led the young girls out of the sewers. Once above ground, two of the girls immediately broke and ran - not trusting the intentions of their benefactors, it would seem - but the other two tearfully thanked Ellyth and Tomas, and asked that they be returned to their parents. Agreeing to reconvene with the others once they had done so, the courtesan and the fisherman returned them their parents anonymously.

The Company's first venture had proved a success.
