Information collected by Hrogan Goringrimm, Fifth of the Monastery of Sundered Faiths in 1474 DR, The Year of the Ageless one.

There is much information to be had regarding Gaebril Tremalkin prior to his arrival at the monastery as well as the events leading up to his demise at the hands of a demon and worshippers of Shar. I have been given the task of detailing what transpired shortly before the events that led to Tremalkin ’s death as well as what transpired following his death.
== Lady of the Moon==
Much to the surprise of those that survived the assault from the Sharrans, a priestess of Selûne bore a child two months after Tremalkin had perished. The priestess was named Kaithrynn Mnemorhyne and she had arrived eighteen months prior to the death of Tremalkin . Kaithrynn was part of a Selûnite contingent that arrived at the request of Loremaster Kennyth Thames during the period in which he was trying to save Tremalkin’s body and soul from whatever vile and malignant force was overtaking him. Kaithrynn spent countless hours with Tremalkin. She would whisper to him, when he wept black tears and begged for death. She would sing to him softly even as he fought against the chains that held him, trying to claw out his own eyes or scrape some manner of vile language into his flesh or the walls of his cell. Kaithyrnn was not the first caregiver to end up giving her heart over to her patient and although she refused to give exact details regarding just how the romance started and eventually culminated in the creation of a child, it was clear to see that they became lovers after Tremalkin began to recover.

It appears that Kaithyrnn’s involvement with Tremalkin was not approved of by the Selûnite contingent that she had arrived with and there were whispers of scandal at the monastery. The birth of the child that Kaithrynn had kept secret resulted in her being removed from the Selûnite faith as a priestess and although a number of the contingent stayed at the monastery, most of the Selûnites eventually left to report what transpired at the monastery and when they did leave, it was made clear that Kaithrynn was no longer welcome at the temple in Waterdeep.

Kaithrynn bore it all stoically. She refused to give details of the time spent with Tremalkin and would only offer glimpses of the relationship the two of them shared.

“He was a terribly ravaged man and he loved me as much as any man could that had travelled where he had.”

“He had been little more than a pawn for the gods, Selûne as well as Shar. While each took hold of an end of his soul and pulled relentlessly until it tore in two. Losing Kyria put him on a dark path. Loving me brought him a little further away from that path.”
==Son of Silver==
The child that was born in the underground gardens of the monastery on the 19th of Elesias, 1381 DR was named Tallanvor Tremalkin. Tallanvor; was the first child to have ever been born at the monastery and although he was indulged and always under the supervision of his ever-vigilant mother, Tallan proved to be a solemn, serious child. His rare smiles were saved for his mother, Kaithrynn and being surrounded by a number of different faiths, he became quite versed in religion as he grew older.

It’s important to note that around his tenth year, Tallan began to manifest some interesting abilities. The rare times that he would grow agitated or excited, he would glow with a silver light. For the last decade, Selûnites had become yet one more faith that worshipped at the monastery. There were always close to a score of them in the monastery at a given time and they seemed fixated on using the tale of Gaebril Tremalkin as a cautionary tale for priests and paladins of Selûne. There had been numerous requests to have Tremalkin’s bow returned to the faithful of Selûne as well as Tremalkin’s dark blade that he used after “his fall” as they liked to call it. At the time, Mincham Goringrimm, First of the Monastery was all that kept the artefacts secreted away from the curious and prying Selûnites. She flatly refused their negotiations for the artefacts and said that a dragon and a demon were unable to wrest them away from this place and a handful of whining moon-worshippers were not going to convince her otherwise.

Upon the odd manifestation that Tallan began to exhibit, he soon attracted a great deal of attraction from the Selûnites at the monastery. Despite the misgivings of his mother, Kaithrynn, shortly after Tallan’s thirteenth birthday, he was accepted into the Selûnite faith at the monastery. As solemn and serious as he was, prayer and worship was not an area that Tallan excelled at. As great as his father’s skill had been with a bow, it seemed that Tallan had similar skill with the blade. Tallan spent hours upon hours learning swordplay, pouring over scrolls and ancient tomes in the monastery’s library to become more and more skilled with the sword.

Some Selûnites speculated that his abilities manifested after the Spellplague in 1385 DR and that his abilities were a result from that phenomenon. Others felt differently and said that the abilities derived from the relationship that his father had developed with Selûne before he had fallen from grace.
==Sieges of the Spellplague==
The unusual case of Tallanvor Tremalkin was forgotten about however as more and more odd and dangerous phenomena occurred after the Spellplague. The realms were in upheaval and it seemed that the cryptic warning that had been given by Loremaster Kennyth Thames years before had manifested.

It was 1397, Tallan’s sixteenth year when the monastery was assaulted by a horde of orcs. Not the usual orcs you might think would be encountered in the Greypeaks. These orcs were small, broader with multiple sets of arms and mouths that could open large enough to devour a man’s head. It was later revealed that these orcs from the northern regions of the Greypeaks were spellscarred creatures that had somehow been transformed by the mystical energies of the Spellplague .

The monastery defended itself as it always did, relying upon the prayers and abilities of the faithful there but Tallan made an exceptional showing of himself. He glowed so greatly that the orcs actually shied away from him only to be swiftly killed by his keen and deft swordsmanship. He moved like moonlight through a forest canopy. Quick, silent and impossible to track, save the silver glimmer that appeared before his sword cut a creature down.

A number of the faithful of the monastery perished but many could agree that had Tallanvor Tremalkin not been present, the situation would have been significantly more dire.

Much like his father, Tallan was not one to suffer compliments or accolades and he simply returned to his duties at the monastery as well as tending to his mother that was more and more often showing signs of a wasting disease that was proving resilient to prayers and the healing made available by the monastery.

Over the next ten years, Tallan continued to study, to train and to tend to his mother, Kaithrynn who would have succumbed to her illness long ago had she not been tended to so ferociously by the priests of the monastery. 
==Daughter of Darkness==
In 1407 DR, Kaithrynn Mnemorhyne passed away. Tallanvor Tremalkin stayed with her corpse that night and refused access to his mother’s body to everyone until the morning of the next day. The next day; Tallanvor Tremalkin was gone. He had left the monastery and the Selûnites exhibited no small amount of irritation that they had lost their favourite subject of investigation.

It was 1419 DR when a pale, dark haired woman arrived at the gate with a small, sickly child in her arms. The woman identified herself as Shoila and all she would reveal was that she was from the east and she had been sent to the monastery at the request of Tallanvor Tremalkin . 

The monastery was never one to turn aside a traveller in need, let alone one with ties to one of its own faithful. The woman known as Shoila and her child, a small girl, was eventually revealed to be more than just an acquaintance of Tallanvor Tremalkin . The woman known as Shoila was revealed to be Tallanvor’s lover and the child belonged to him. The small, pale girl was named Minarah and it seemed the journey that she had taken with her mother through the Greypeaks had resulted in her growing seriously ill.

A number of Selûnites were outraged by the appearance of Shoila and Minarah for that matter. A number of them asserted that Shoilah and Minarah were shadovar and should be destroyed. There was no way that Tallanvor, a respected and devoted member of the Selûnite faith would consort with such a creature. It was not possible for Tallanvor to father a child with such a creature and clearly the woman was lying. They demanded to know where Tallanvor was and what she knew of him. All she would reveal was that Tallanvor had died ensuring that Shoila and Minarah could escape to the monastery to the west. The Selûnites demanded all manner of answers and punishment but in the end, it was a priest of ilmater by the name of Paral Mourngrimm that took Shoila under his protection, tending to the sick Minarah and sheltering both of them from the inquisition of the Selûnites. 

It was 1420 DR when Minarah was truly on the mend and shortly after Minarah was deemed healthy by Paral, Shoila disappeared one night and was never seen again. Minarah was heartbroken but over time, her heart was healed by the devoted and doting Paral Mourngrimm. As much as the Selûnites insisted that Minarah was not the child of Tallanvor Tremalkin but one only needed to know Tallanvor and look at Minarah to see the startling resemblance.

1426, Minarah was ten years of age and began to manifest powers much like her father did at a similar age. Where Tallanvor displayed powers of a clearly moonlight-like nature, Minarah was the exact opposite. It was as if she could cloak herself in darkness and at times, seemingly control and shape it like one would clay. For some, this further drove the argument that Minarah was not Tallanvor’s daughter but for others, it only solidified their belief that Minarah indeed was Tallanvor’s child. Branalah Goringgrimm speculated that the Tremalkin line was similar to the waxing and waning of the moon and it would alternate each generation. This could only be proved if in time, Minarah gave birth to a child and Minarah’s disposition was enough to dissuade most suitors as Minarah grew older.

Where Tallanvor had a patient, solemn and serene disposition, Minarah was contentious, restless and downright combative. She found solace with her adoptive father Paral and he was one of the few that seemed to be able to soothe her anxious and restless nature.

Minarah was extremely devoted to her adoptive father and for a short time would introduce herself as Minarah Mourngrimm but was soon corrected by Paral. Paral spoke to her about her grandfather and his association with Saint Maturin and insisted that she honour the efforts of her father as well as grandfather and take the Tremalkin name. 

In 1429 DR on a cloudy night during the warmer summer months, the monastery was attacked by ten shadovar. The monastery had never suffered from an attack such as this before and considering the shadovar’s reputation for being bound to Shar, a number of individuals associated the attack with the Tremalkin legacy and the blame fell squarely upon Minarah’s sixteen year old shoulders.

Paral Mourngrimm did all that he could to protect Minarah from the accusations but five days later, Minarah left the monastery. Attempts to scry her location were foiled due to the tumultuous times following the Spellplague and all further information regarding Minarah Tremalkin ceased to reach the monastery.
==Miri Tremalkin==
In 1469 DR, a ten year old girl arrived with a supply caravan. The girl was quick to step forward and identify herself as Miri Tremalkin, her mother was Minarah and she never knew her father. She was at the monastery to learn of her great, great grandfather and the curse that he seems to have earned for his bloodline.
