==The Lady of Loedegan Close==

This estate is not difficult to find, and many of you have seen the gates of it from the distance.

Approaching the estate in the evening, you see lights in only a couple of windows in the main house, and none in the staff house to the right. The grounds are neat, but you would expect to see some evidence of the activity of the dozens of people a place such as this would accommodate. However, the place is quiet.

There is a single torch burning in a bracket at the gate entrance, and another by the main doors to the manor, though there are brackets for a score. Approaching the main doors through this unwelcoming darkness is not what you expected from such a home. Something has changed here...

The first real tangible sign of trouble comes when you mount the stairs to the main doors. The doors themselves are fine oak-panelled doors 10’ high, and though they still have the fine bronze handles installed, you can see where the great bronze knocker and family crest once protected the door from weather; the patch of unweathered wood outlines clearly the once prodigious and opulent fixture. Rapping on the doors by hand, you can hear the sound of your rapping echo in the halls beyond.

Very soon after you knock on the door, you hear footsteps approaching. Again, the footfalls echo smartly off the stone floors beyond, and the sound of them is not quite right. When the door opens, you see the attractive figure of the Steward of the Close, attended by one other young girl. The Steward bows only slightly.

“You must be the White Cloaks. I was told to expect you. I am Ms. Hasting Whitegate, cousin to your dear Lumina. I am Steward of the Close, such as it is in these times. This girl,“ she says, motioning to the adolescent girl at her side “is Emily. She will see to your horses, your bags, your rooms and your meals.” The girl gives an awkward curtsey, and steps out to help you.

“I will tell you straight away” continues the dour-toned steward “that I would have you put up in the staff house if things weren’t... as they are... here. However, to save candles and logs on the fire, even Emily here shares the manor with me now, and so too must you. Just mind your filthy boots and filthy habits while you are the guest of my cousin.”

With this, she sees you into the manor home, which you notice is all but bear of any furniture at all. She shows you to your rooms on the third floor, which seem to have been recently emptied of their furniture, but even more recently appointed with cots seemingly from a military barracks, and a crude pine table.

There is an evening meal being prepared by Emily which is served around 8 PM. You are invited to come and eat with the Steward and her servant in a large dining room on the second floor. This room, too, has been denuded of most of its furniture. A single large table that looks as though it was constructed here, given its size, remains, as do 2 fine chairs of oak stuffed and upholstered with yellow silk. Emily is made to bring a pair of benches from the chapel upstairs to the table for the rest of you to sit at.

The meal is simple; not poor or opulent. There is a lean cut of pork and many potatoes and vegetables, but no wine is served. One glass of decent beer is poured for each of you, before Emily is ordered to stow away the small cask. Water is served after that.

Hasting has a difficult mannerism to pin down; the is armed with the polite vocabulary and mannerisms of an educated and fine woman, but she says the most blunt things in her proper fashion that even the adventurous sort, such as yourselves, sometimes find awkward:

“What news from my cousin’s womb?”

“Isn’t your hair just a bit suggestive of solicitation, Troia?”

“Where exactly were you bred, Mr. Reks?”

“What manner of name is ‘Thendolain’, or is it some servile rank in whatever place you call home?”

And she never stops staring right into your eyes. She has a withering stare that most cannot endure beyond a second or two, but in the moments when Troia and her challenge each other with their fixed attention, Troia can see that just behind the rock-hard facade of this woman, a very lonely and scared girl is hiding.

== A Dinner ==

=== Friends Arrive===

Alystair and Tuugan show up just before the main course.  The two of them look like they have seen more combat in the last few days than some of you have seen your whole lives.

“Good evening Lady Whitegate, and thank you for your efforts in making this as hospitable as you have.” He lowers his head only slightly (Troia recognizes this as the closest Alystair gets to a bow).

He then turns to Troia and extends his hand to shake in welcome.

“And Troia, well met indeed. Let us hope we need not part company again too soon”

He looks to the others… arching an eyebrow, “I take it the two of you are the newcomers, Reks and Thenlodian? Well it is good to have you here. I hope you do not end up dead too soon... I think things are going to get messy”

=== Thendolain===

The Tormite did not expect the sharpness of this woman's tongue and her words took him aback. He had grown too accustomed to the cloister of Uthmere, where the men and women respected Torm and the paladins in His service. It was not so much her choice in words, as any slur-mouthed drunkard can slight a man. But more in her effortless ability to agitate the very root of weakness in men, their pride, whilst stroking her own. Ganolen thought it prudent to parry Lady Whitegate's inquiry rather than attempt a riposte and be humbled further.

“My heritage is one of service to the Loyal Fury, my Lady. In Thesk, last names do not denote social position. And as for my name? It has been passed down my line for generations and is respected in my lands.” He said respectfully, he was not talking to a fool.

Ganolen stands as the two men enter the hall, and clasps the hands that are offered him. Had he known the men better, and the situation different, he would have corrected Alystair's error. His name is “Thendolain”. Not “Thenlodian”, what could be mistaken as some kind of instrument to be played upon. He merely clenches his jaw as hard as the grip of their greeting.

“What news?”

===Alen Reks===

Opting to remain seated, Alen merely nodded his acknowledgement of Alystair's greeting and replied with a charming, yet silent smile. Was he uneasy? Yes. Very much so. During his time at Castle Radiance, the changeling had learned much to know about the men and women of his company, and what he had heard about this sword-slinging bloodstain of a man was nothing comforting.

'I've gone and thrown my lot in with zealots and madmen.' He murmured softly into the cup at his lips. He downed the remaining water and turned the glass upside down, catching the remaining drops on the tips of his outstretched fingers. Placing the glass on the table once more, Alen dabbed each finger against his tongue and then settled himself into the chair with a contented sigh. Taking a moment to appraise the rapidly cooling plate before him, Alen's attention quickly shifted back to something that had been bothering him since his group's arrival.

As the paladin beside him rose to greet the new arrivals, Alen looked to their hostess and smiled his best smile.

“Thank you for the meal, Lady Whitegate. If I may be so bold, and this is in no way a complaint, why so spartan the decor? One would expect a place as... charming as this to be filled with equally charming furnishings, no?”

===Alystair===

Alystair turns his head abruptly at Alen.

He speaks in a quiet tone.

“Mr. Reks, if it is the will of Amaunator that the shepherd not live in luxury while the flocks decay, who are we to question?” 

He continues, with only a little less vehemence in his voice;

“And if a fool’s false smiles were gold you alone could fund an army. As it is be thankful you are not sleeping on a cold rock, which soon you will be.”

Speaking now to the group he continues.

“Thenlodian, news is bad, parts of the Dales have been blocked from access, as Tuugan can attest. No-one can be trusted, so please learn to use your heads before your tongues.”

You can all see the big man has a horrid gleam in his eyes, you believe you may see true fear.... but he continues to speak, looking over at the Lady Whitegate;

“M'lady, if you could be so kind as to have your wretch fetch that keg of ale I am sure my companion would be overjoyed to empty it.” He smiles at Tuugan and sits at the table.

It is now you realize it was not fear you saw, but righteous excitement.

===Alen Reks===

Something twinkled in the corners of Alen's eyes as he watched Alystair and his companion seat themselves. Perhaps it was amusement. He hid his smile behind clasped fingers. This man was all too eager to bite at any sidelong comment, and Alen was chock full of them. He would have to mind his words around this character, lest things turn to bloodshed, and Alen reckoned that bloodshed was something Dretch was not prone to avoiding.

The changeling contented himself with a languid stare, flicking between Lady Whitegate and Alystair, waiting for her curt and mocking explanation.
===Tuugan===

Tuugan drops his gear heavily to the ground, and then slumps down onto the bench in between Alen and Ganolen.

“Tomorrow we fight! Tonight we eat and drink and...” he looks at the Steward of the Close with a mischievous look in his eye and a bold smile on his face which is met with cold indifference. He shrugs and slaps the thighs of the two White Cloaks on either side of him. “Well, we'll eat and drink anyway!”

He looks hungrily at the plate put in front of him, and he closes his eyes, holds his hands over the plate and prays;

“The Harvest is stored,
The cattle are low,
The Hunters returned,
With game on the bow.

The larder is full,
The table arrayed, 
My friends are beside me,
Though often I've strayed.

Thank you Sun,
And thank you lands,
Thank you, sweet Goddess,
For your blistered hands.”

He pauses only briefly, and then opens his eyes. All of you notice that his face goes from his usual smile to one of mixed horror and disgust, as he looks at his plate. He looks quickly to the plates on either side of him. He then looks back to his own plate, and shakes his head slightly. He rubs the back of his head and says “That orc with with shovel got me better'n I thought, Dretch!” 

He seems a little out of sorts for a moment, but just then Emily returns with the cask of beer under her arm, and he jumps up “let me help you that terrible burden, my doe!” and he takes the small cask from her, and pats her on her rump. Returning to the table, he is met with the stony glare of the Steward.

“It is curious how rutting boars and helpful gentlemen have such similar manners, is it not?” she says while looking at Tuugan, who is already pouring a drink for himself, and offering one to the girl, and patting his lap at the same time. He dismisses the Steward's words with a wave and a scoff, and downs his glass at once.

“What was all this about the furniture here, Lady Snow-Tits?” he asks irreverently. She replies with the exact same tone and mannerisms as if she had just been called 'queen of Faerûn' rather than 'lady snow-tits'.

“My grandfather and my great uncle are financing a terrible war. Paying mercenaries like you has bled the coffers, and I am grateful for their sacrifice, even if it means I must sleep on the stone floor; at least I have my life and my liberty. And at least you may enjoy their surplus and hospitality, such as it is.”

You sense that she only half means what she says, but that she is proud, in a resentful fashion, of her relatives and their struggle. 

===Troia===

Troia was listening to the verbal sparring that was going on about her. It was as if the impending battle was creating enough anxiety in those present that they felt a need to battle one another.

She picked at her plate of food and tasted only a morsel here and there before the tension in the room became palpable. Lumina's dismay and paranoia concerned her nearly as much as the fevered warnings she had confessed to.

The darkness that had been whispered about for the last few years was now seemingly gathering all around them. Troia had seen that darkness. Troia had tasted that darkness and in turn been consumed by it.

Where Lumina, once radiant and true was now a shadow of what she once was.

Where Alystair, once damaged and dark was now broken and as dangerous to himself as he was to his enemies.

Where Tuugan, once a man of the woods, but still a man of honour, now speaking to a lady of high-standing as if she was a tavern slattern.

Where Iolus, once a righteous and unwavering man, now possibly a “shadow-friend” and creating accords with dragons.

Troia was true. Her faith in Sune went beyond what many thought was love or beauty. She loved herself and loved those around her and that is what kept her true. She saw the beauty in men like Alystair and Tuugan despite their wish to hide such things. There was beauty all around her and it was reflected in her...magnified.

She gave a regretful smile as she quietly pushed herself away from the table and gracefully stood.

“I think it is safe to say we are all grateful for your hospitality Lady Whitegate.”

Troia graced the cold woman with a smile that suggested her previous slight regarding Troia's appearance was either unheard or simply unremembered.

“I must retire for the night but I would like to remind everyone that none of those present in this hall this very eve are the enemy that we battle against. It would do everyone a wealth of good to remember that. Save all that you think is clever...save your barbs for those that wish to take this land and our lives from us.”

She spoke in a tone that was not curt, or even in a tone that would suggest a reprimand. She spoke all of it in a warm, rich tone with a smile that was steeped in serenity.

“Where might I find out sleeping quarters, Lady Whitegate?”

“You are right, Ms. Trustar,” comes Hasting’s brief acquiescence. “It is late, and I too shall retire now. I will leave Emily to see to the rest of you. Ms. Trustar, if you will follow me...”

And she gets up, offering to show Troia to her room.

There are a pair of rooms on the third floor of the Close that have been furnished with barracks-style cots and foot lockers; one has a single cot, the other has four crammed in. Troia is given, of course, the single room, while her companions will be sharing one small room in this expansive manse. 

Back at the dinner table, Emily continues to attend the remaining men. Tuugan eats voraciously, and has a bit more beer than he should, but less than you expected he might.

“Well, friends” he says those of you remaining behind. “Troia is about as right as she is pretty. So, we should start thinking like a team. What's our next move?”

===Alystair===

Alystair seems completely oblivious of his surroundings. You did note that he did not eat until after the meal prayer, to the Lady of the Harvest, of his friend was complete. The talk in the room seems to not affect him, but he does turn to watch the sway of Troia’s hips, a sign of her offerings to Sune, as she quietly leaves.

But as Tuugan asks his question his head snaps up.

“First, we must take some rest. Tormite!.. ahem..” thinking of his friends words his voice softens, but you can see him struggle to settle his dour demeanour “Ganolen, if you would be so kind as to take first watch, wake me in 6 hours as I have thinking to do, then you may rest, at 10 (12 hours from now) bells we go to see the old man, he will have words for us, but disrupting him too early will be pointless.” He looks to the men seated around him one at a time. “Sleep well, and do not tarry in taking to your cots, sleep soundly as I believe in the protection of Torm this night. Come morning by Amauntaor the sun will rise, but it may be the last we see.”

With that he stands, unslings his sword and leaves it on the table. With a nod to the Tormite he takes his leave of you all.

You reflect on this. Piety to a God, and almost to a fault that Alystair displays in his worship of Amaunator is expected of such men. It is a surprise to all but Tuugan to see that he shows such great respect to the faiths the others hold dear to. You take comfort in this respect, but wonder just how bad things are for Alystair to represent it so openly.
