== 6 Mirtul - Parting of the Ways and an Omen==

The incredible tale of the Daggerdale expedition becomes its own tale begins on 6 Mirtul, 1372, when the heroes of this story take leave of their comrades in the Neverwinter Expedition, and set out from Roarke’s Tavern on the Long Road north and east towards Rassalantar. Maturin, Raven, Sparrow, Hanibal and Corina plan to follow the road as far as Loudwater and Llorkh, then on through Anauroch to Daggerdale. The members of the Daggerdale Expedition are mostly known to each other, having travelled together the year before on an even longer journey from the Moonsea settlement of Elmwood. They have agreed to accompany the Harper agents Raven and Boregar on their quest to address the Zhent threat in Dagger Falls.

Barely has the party set out, however, before an omen of ill tiding besets them. From out of the underbrush, a wolverine emblazoned with a crest of shocking white fur dashes from the undergrowth, before disappearing again into the wild. Boregar notes the white crest of fur and recognizes the apparition as a warning from Mielikki. \"We are being followed,\" he tells his comrades.

== 7 Mirtul - The Missing Caravan and a Duel==
The first village along the route towards the desert is Rassalantar, which the party reached at noon the next day. Already, tension has begun to mount between Maturin, the austere paladin of Ilmater, and his comrades - notably the unstable mage, Hanibal - but such discord is soon forgotten as the heroes discover that all is not well in the settlement. A large caravan of about twenty men had disappeared outside of town, only discovered when the caravan's horses had returned unaccompanied to the village stables. Suspecting Zhent villainy, the heroes decide to investigate the disappearance. While Corrina attempts to use her skills to commune with the horses, Boregar, Raven and Maturin head to talk to the guard captain, Gatesmor. Little further information comes to light, but after setting out to track the caravan's progress, it does not take long to discover the traces of an ambush. Boregar and Raven are able to make some sense of the chaotic jumble of tracks, which seem to indicate that several dozen - perhaps as many as forty - heavy-booted humanoids seemed to have appeared out of nowhere and attacked the caravan from the east. Additional tracks, from the west, show that a large spider-like creature dragged many of the bodies off to the west.

It is late at this point, and the heroes return to town. Upon their return, the heroes discover that Boregar had correctly divined the goddess' warning: they were being followed by four members of  - the group of men who had spent the night with them at Roarke's. Sheriff Grimwald himself, Agilos Voun, Archibald Suresmith, and Stoneman have arrived in town, and have been making inquiries about the Daggerdale Expedition. They do not appear to mean well. The youngest member of the Rangers - Stoneman - seems particularly eager for blood, and provokes a sparring contest with Maturin, which the paladin loses, though without serious injury.

== 8 Mirtul - The Rangers Strike ==
thumb|300px|Grimwald's Rangers
Corrina, it seems was able to befriend one of the refugee horses, but little comes of this effort other than an encounter with Sherriff Grimwald himself, who menaces the gnome while she is alone the stables. After an eventful night, the party returns to the woods around the ambush site, and Raven quickly finds the spider-creature's trail, which leads to a small ruined keep, hidden in the dense woods. Entering the ruins, the heroes discover bodies of the caravanners strewn haphazardly around an altar of some kind. Before the scene can be properly investigated, however, a huge and cunning spider strikes at Raven. A brief fight ensues, and Hanibal's magic missiles seem to discourage the creature, which escapes into the woods. The danger is not over, however, for Grimwald's Rangers, having followed the party into the woods, use the encounter with the spider as an opportunity to strike while the heroes are distracted. A brief melee sees Grimwald's men driven off, and the party regroups to take stock.

Leaving the ruined keep, the companions part ways for a time, for Maturin decides that he must return to Rassalantar and inform the authorities about the keep and the spider. For their part, the rest continue north to spend the night in the horse-breeding village of Amphail. It is agreed that Maturin’s steed, Warburden, is swift enough to allow him to close the distance and rejoin his comrades the next day.

Things go poorly, however, when Maturin is confronted on the road, alone, by the Rangers. He fights a knightly-duel with the Sheriff, the two charging at each other on horseback, making a quick exchange, and then wheeling about for another pass. Pass after pass they made, and Maturin seemed to be getting the best of the Sheriff. In the final pass however, the Sheriff ducked behind the neck of his great horse, and fired from this low, covered position. Three shots from the Gond Pistola made the Paladin go limp in his seat, and the setting sun found Warburden charging back into Rassalantar, the Paladin of Ilmater lying prostrate in the blood-soaked saddle.

== 9 Mirtul - Ned Griffin's Farm ==

Maturin awakes the next day, wounded but alive, being cared for in the barracks infirmary. He spends the day recuperating, storing up his strength for the journey to come.

In Amphail, Raven exchanges the party's horses for fresh steeds at the stables of a local breeder, and Sparrow is able to augment his weaponry by somehow acquiring an enchanted dagger (+2). Fully rested after the harrowing events of the previous day, the party leaves Amphail to make for the settlement of Bargewright Inn on the River Dessarin, where they arrive mid-afternoon. As they arrive, however, an alarm is sounding, and a pillar of smoke can be seen rising into the sky in the north. Without hesitation, the heroes ride out, leaving behind the inhabitants of the Inn settlement who are rousing a relief expedition. Riding hard through the farmland on the western bank of the river, Raven points out a giant footprint that seems to be pointing towards the source of the smoke. The heroes make out a cluster of blazing farm buildings, surrounded by a sinister swarm of what turn out to be unusually well-organized ettins and Orogs, harassing the inhabitants.

The ensuing battle is delivered to the heroes through the arcane skills of Hanibal, whose magical attacks seem much stronger than usual. By the time the sun has fully set, the heroes have managed to rescue a man named Ned Griffin and his kinfolk. Despite this feat of heroism, however, the Daggerdale Expedition is soon to find that this encounter would taint their name.

Returning to Bargewright Inn, the heroes are unnerved to hear no word of Maturin, and all are somewhat worried about the Rangers. Boregar especially has some concern, though he tries not to let it show. He has had run-ins with the Rangers years ago in the Dalelands.

== 10 Mirtul - Bounty Hunter ==
Back in Rassalantar, Maturin leads Gatesmor and his guardsmen to the keep to deal with the spider, but the creature appears to have deserted the area. The men are able to retrieve the corpses of the caravanners for a proper burial, however, and Maturin bids Gatesmor farewell and rides hard to rejoin the rest of the Daggerdale Expedition, whom he is now two days behind.

From Bargewright Inn, his comrades have taken the Iron Road to Uluvin. The weather has turned, and heavy showers dampen the spirits of the party as they push on at a moderate pace, hoping that Maturin will rejoin them soon. Shortly before midnight, they enter the town, whereupon they make for the “Where the Maiden Dances Inn”. Thoroughly drenched, Hanibal and Boregar hit the bar to warm their bellies, and a roaring fire soon has the heroes more comfortable than they'v been in days. The service at the inn is lavish - indeed, the proprietor seems almost relieved to see the heroes.

The party makes the acquaintance of a fellow patron, an ugly cheapskate half-orc named Razor. The half-orc is a bounty hunter, on the trail of an orc slaver named Curlclaw, whom he has learned is in town to meet with a caravan that is also stationed at the inn. Indeed, a mid-sized caravan is camped a the back of the inn, guarded by four men that appear to be from the Moonsea. A dozen other guards are making merry in the bar, and Razor indicates that the slaver has occupied a back room with a young woman (a hostage, he says) and six other orcs.

A couple of hours after the party beds down for the night, Maturin arrives at the inn, and rejoins his comrades. Corrina has charmed a stray dog to watch over her room, but the night passes without incident.

== 11 Mirtul - Fire at the Inn ==
Then next morning, Raven sets out to the general store to buy supplies, but the settlement of Uluvin is not a town of early risers. Returning to the inn, he investigates the caravans and notes that the Moonsea men are guarding one of three caravans - theirs belonging to the Moonwheel Trading Coster. The other two - a large Irlingstar caravan and a smaller independent - are preparing to leave. Returning to the party's rooms inside, Raven wakes Maturin and Boregar, and apprises them of the situation with the slaves. Maturin is enraged and declares that he is going to resolve the problem immediately. The three warriors rouse the rest of the party, and all prepare for battle, joined by Razor.

A word with the innkeeper lets Maturin know that the Moonwheel caravan is led by a Zhent man named Thezul, who has taken private quarters at the inn. Maturin pounds loudly on the man's door, and a scuffling sound is heard inside, then the door is yanked open and the man throws a magical attack before darting into a side room as Boregar fires a pistol at him. The door to the side room is locked, and when Hanibal attempts to magically unlock the door, a fireball engulfs the wall, and the inn catches on fire.

Thezul, it turns out had joined Curlclaw's orcs, and the combined force attacks the heroes, but it is not enough. Thezul and Curlclaw are slain, their mercenaries routed and the slaves - numbering almost twenty - are freed. Apparently, Curlclaw had been negotiating with Thezul over the sale of several slaves to the Zhent trader. Unfortunately, Raven is unable to find Hob among the freed slaves. One other item of interest was that Curlclaw's orcs were armed with well-forged blades of Hillsfar metal.

The rest of the day is spend recuperating from the battle and tending the freed slaves.

== 12-13 Mirtul - Tragedy in Secomber==
thumb|300px|Delimbiyr's Rest
The next morning, the Daggerdale Expedition, now joined by Razor, presses for Secomber on the Delimbiyr Route, which they reach at noon. It is decided that the party will stay here until the morrow, at Delimbiyr's Rest, rather than continue on to Zelbross. Hanibal decides to splurge on a private room, while the others bunk down in the common area.

In the dark hours after midnight, Grimwald's Rangers strike. The quick and chaotic battle went the heroes' way for the most part, but the Rangers proved to be deadly adversaries. Razor also proved a valuable ally, and took the kills of Agilos, Archibald and Stoneman, while Grimwald was eventually bested by Maturin in another duel. Tragically, Maturin was unable to stop the Sheriff from gunning down Raven with the starwheel Gond Pistola when the noble Harper heroically charged the villain. Another mystery - when the smoke cleared and the battle was won, Hanibal had disappeared. His wild magic, it seems, had consumed him, though none are certain of the fate of the curious mage.

Later that day, as the party grieves for its lost comrades and tries to make sense of the events of the past tenday, they are approached by a dwarf by the name of Dalak, a battlerager searching for a missing brother. This brother, who goes by the name of Balak, has been captured by slavers - likely the same group that Boregar and his friends are pursuing towards Dagger Falls. Dalak offers to join the party, and they are happy to have him - their grief somehow blunted, if only a little, by this promise of new friendship.

== 14-15 Mirtul - Bitter Justice ==
At noon, on 14 Mirtul, 1372, the captive Sherriff Grimwald was sentenced in front of gawking townsfolk by Maturin, and then put to death with his own starwheel pistol by Boregar. Boregar assumed stewardship of the Gond Pistola hereafter. Razor takes his leave of the heroes, after taking possession of Agilos Voun's magical blades. Few will miss him.

Early the next morning, Boregar, Maturin, Corrina, Sparrow and Dalak bid farewell to the bier that is to deliver Raven's corpse back to his family in Waterdeep, and leave Secomber, taking the Delimbiyr Route east for Zelbross. On the road, the five travellers meet a caravan that brings the news that Llorkh has been overrun and now flies the Zhentarim flag. As the party takes leave, the caravanners ask them to take some news to another caravan which should be following the next morning.

That evening, the party makes camp at some ruins near a waterfall and ford on the Delimbiyr River, where they make the acquaintance of a fellow traveller heading east - a druid going by the name of Tristan of Shadowdale. The party looks askance at this ‘druid’, who wears chain mail armour and carries a sword, but agree to let him join their ranks, as this part of the Delimbiyr is monster territory, and travel here is dangerous. Indeed, later in the night, the camp is attacked by trolls. The heroes are able to defeat them - in no small thanks to the druid, who turns out to be a swordsman of admirable dexterity. \"Tristan\" reveals himself after the encounter as Dorian of Sembia, and begs his companions' pardon for the deception - one cannot be too careful, he says. Having dispatched the monsters with fire, the party follows the spoor of the trollkin to a hoard of goods obviously taken from a recently ambushed caravan - likely the one which they had been told to expect. The heroes take possession of the goods, which Maturin reminds them they will have to turn in once they reach town.

== 16 Mirtul - Faces Friendly, Tidings Ill ==
right|650px
The six travellers finally arrive in Zelbross in the late afternoon, where they espy two caravans encamped near the inn - a Red Shields Caravan, and Moonwheel Coster Caravan from Loudwater. Upon arrival, the party is accosted by a man known to Boregar, and indeed, the Wanderer is extremely happy to see his old friend, Garrik Shining. Shining ran afoul of some unlucky Zhents (and vice versa) near Llorkh, and he had learned much from them. Apparently the Zhents have had some warning of the heroes' approach, and Garrik warns that there are few safe havens to be had. He did not trust the ‘new’ manager of the inn in town, the Last Place. The proprietor, Ordilar, hails from Llorkh, and appears to have come into possession of the inn under suspicious circumstances. Garrik has little doubt that he is a Zhentarim informant or even agent, and entreats the party to stay at the home of a retired adventurer named Durnax Vorn, whom he trusts implicitly.

That evening, after Maturin distributes the caravan goods recovered from the trolls to the citizens of Zelbross, the party beds down at Vorn's place and exchanges news with Garrik. The safety of the tower offers little comfort against the tidings that are to come - Garrik's tales about the state of affairs in the Eastern Heartlands are depressing to say the least.

Outright war between Cormyr and Sembia, and the awakening of the old god Bane have sowed chaos in the lands east of the desert. Sembia and Hillsfar have come to an alliance of sorts against Cormyr, and established a post in the Thunder Peaks at Shadow Gap. Together with the fall of Tilverton to humanoid hordes, trade with the Forest Kingdom has been cut off. Privateering is rampant on the Sea of Fallen Stars, in Procampur and Alghon, and the result has been that the East has been effectively cut off from the West. Only Zhentil Keep has been able to maintain trade networks, thanks to the re-opening of the Anauroch trade route through the establishment of four Zhentarim desert outposts which lie along the route to Dekanter and Llorkh on the desert's western edge. East of the desert, Dagger Falls is now under the control of a Zhentarim mage named Yarkul, who leads a mercenary group known as \"the Fist\", which Garrik takes to be an arm of Manshoon's branch of the Zhentarim organization. The town of Dagger Falls is being fortified with stone walls, using materials from mines manned by slave labour, and churches of Iyachtu Xvim, Cyric and Bane have been built in the town.

Garrik further explains that the Zhents have found the capital and slaves enough to rebuild Dekanter (an ancient ruin) and that their influence in the mountains and hills to the west of Anauroch is getting stronger. Apparently the Zhents have been outfitting and training Orogs and orcs in the area, encouraging them to wreak havoc along the western reaches of the trade route, and only select (Zhent-approved) caravans are safe. Garrik produces a map of Anauroch, which he gives to Boregar. The map is of Zhentish origin, and marks the road (really, just tracks through the sand) through the desert, and the four Zhent outposts along the way.

Garrik has one further piece of ill news for Boregar that night. Harpers all throughout the Realms are turning up dead or going missing, and their numbers are dangerously low.

==17 Mirtul - The Ebon Spur ==
thumb|300px|A sinister messenger
The party breaks its fast with Vorn and Garrik at the tower, after which Garrik indicates that he, too, is heading east, but that he hopes to ‘find another way through’ to the Heartlands. Bidding Boregar farewell, the two pledge to meet again on the other side of the desert. The rest of the party breaks up to investigate the town and purchase supplies before departing. Maturin hears of an elderly local who has been sick, and goes to heal the man, while Dorian heads to the market to sell the extra horses. Sparrow inquires about the caravans, and his investigations reveal that the Red Shields and Moonwheel caravan are heading east, through the desert.

Corrina goes to the inn and magically charms the proprietor, Ordilar, convincing him to leave her alone as she investigates the inn. Up a flight of stairs, on the roof of the inn, she finds she found a shack with some pigeons and empty cages. A winged snake is ringing a bell. It asks her name before it flies off out the window. Speaking in the language of birds, she learns from a pigeon, that the snakes are used to take messages across the desert, and take about two days to reach their destination. From here the pigeons take the notes westward. Corrina convinces the pigeon to take its notes to Durnax’s tower thereafter.

Reconvening, the party heads out, continuing along the Delimbyir Route towards Loudwater. That evening, they arrive at a mouldering ruin along the river, where a caravan of about a dozen men are encamped. Maturin senses that something about the men seems twisted and sinister, and warns his companions to be ready for treachery. Dorian leads the parlay, introducing himself as Tristan of Shadowdale in case these men are allied with the Zhents. The leaders of the party introduce themselves as Cauldrawn and Duncan Eldoun, who take time enough only to laugh at the heroes' attempted ruse before attacking. The caravanners are clearly Zhent, and no mere traders - the group appears to have been well seeded with assassins, fighters and priests. The encounter is swift and fierce, but the heroes manage to kill the leaders of the caravan.

Boregar himself brings down Cauldrawn, who was revealed as a wizard of some skill, and Eldoun, a priest of Cyric. When the party searches the bodies of the men, they are surprised to find a note identifying the group as the , and naming Raven and Boregar as wanted men. Disturbingly, the note was dated 2 Mirtul, only two days after Boregar and Raven met. The means by which this information reached points east so fast remains unknown to this day.

==18-29 Mirtul - Loudwater==

At length, the travellers reach Loudwater, where they take rooms at the Smiling Satyr, a tavern on a hill. Loudwater has seen happier days. The town was still recovering from the afflictions of a mage named Azmund, who had cast some powerful spells upon the town two years previously, destroying much of the vegetation around the settlement. (This threat to the town which had been met by members of the . The Warders had captured the fell mage, but stopped short of slaying him: any man or woman who attempts to put Azmund to his death is said to be stricken with an overwhelming fear of their own mortality, and find themselves unable to do him in. Thus, Azmund lives in the dungeons of the Keep in Loudwater to this day.) However, the current situation with Zhentarim has only added to Loudwater's woes, and the atmosphere in the town is morose, and its citizens are far from content.

It is made particularly uncomfortable for the heroes owing to the fact that the town seems covered in wanted posters which identify them as villains and enemies of the peace. Here, they once again ran across the half-orc bully and killer Razor, now calling himself the ‘Greatest Bounty Hunter in the Realms’. Razor has a copy of the poster in his greasy jerkin, and smiled cruelly at the travellers when he passed them by. Razor knows his limits, however, and the party is able to spend just over a tenday in town relatively unmolested, save Dorian, who - still in the guise of a druid - is entreated by members of the community to do something about the blighted woods that are Lord Azmund's legacy in the town.

Loudwater was the last civilized place on the East Road at this point in the journey, and the heroes pause here to re-supply, and learn what they can about the threat in the east. Dorian and Sparrow sell the dozen or so horses that were acquired from the encounter with the Ebon Spur (who they learn are a Cyricist organization from Amn). Meanwhile, Maturin offers his services to the two Gauntlets of Loudwater - Harazos Thelbrimm and Kalahar Twohands in their patrols, as well as turning his medical attention to the assistance the High Lord of Loudwater, Nanathlor Greysword who suffers from a magical sickness. Dalak has little time for the humans, and hires a needler to ink some new designs into his intricate tattoos. Only Boregar, driven by the thought of what was happening to his Harper allies, living up to his name, leaves early, to wander the East Road.

On 29 Mirtul, Boregar returns. The party has learned all it can, and prepared themselves to the best of their ability for the mission to come. A day's ride along the Dawn Pass Trail Loudwater, more evidence of the chaos engulfing the region is seen when they camp at the charred ruins of the Nighthunt Inn, south of the trail, which Boregar says was run by a man friendly to the Harpers. It would have taken strong magic to burn the inn, but obviously the Zhents had turned their attentions to do so.

== Early Kythorn - Victory in the North==
thumb|Corrina's mistake|400px
Near the Zhent-controlled town of Llorkh, the party receives magical word from Beljuril that the Neverwinter Expedition has proved victorious in their struggle with the Zhentarim in the North. The grim news about the death of the Harper Initiate Rufus is taken hard by Boregar, who is starting to suspect some greater plot, and fears that his order has been infiltrated, or sold out.

While crossing the mountains that border the great Sand Sea, the party runs into many encounters with humanoids, some disorderly and some well-organized. In one particular encounter in a wild magic zone, one of Corrina's attempts at a spell unleashed a demonic entity which saved the party when it kills a pair of hill giants and chases a third off into the hills before taking flight into the mountains.

When the party finally comes to Dekanter, the last outpost before Anauroch, they find that the town is under quite a bit of construction. Furthermore, the Zhentarim are openly in control of the town - the organization's banners and those of the church of Cyric fly freely here, and slavery is open and ubiquitous. The party is forced to enter the town when Maturin takes mysteriously ill. Only when Dorian takes him to be healed by a Cyricist priest does the illness depart. The priest reassures the men that he is not what he seems, and the two rejoin the rest of the party on 9 Kythorn.

Dekanter was an abomination, and none were keen to leave it behind, but a great task had been set before them, and so the remaining members of the Daggerdale Expedition, and their new compatriots pressed on for Anauroch, now just a day away.
