==“The Shadow Lifted”==

A Report on the Events and Happenings in Daggerdale after the Saint’s Battle, 1 Kythorn, 1480 DR

Compiled and Written by S. Estelmer, Sr. Sp. Order of the Tome.

Final Draft submitted to Canoness Majarra, 25 Eleasias, 1481 DR

==Acknowledgements==

First, my thanks to Oghma, who is both the Book and the Quill. My thanks to Oghma, who is the Schoolmaster of the learned, and the Divine Spark for children with new eyes, the elderly who are blind, and all those between.

Second, my thanks to the Order, for this assignment. I am eternally grateful for the experience of new lands, new faces and new friends. I am privileged to have traveled far, to have learned so much that is new to me, to have taught so much of what I already knew, and to have returned safely home. The Order provided this, with Oghma’s guidance, and I am thankful.

Third, my thanks to the Canoness, S. Majarra, who has peerless insight into many things, my nuanced habits in the field and my tendency for vice included. The Canoness has been ever patient with me, the perpetual student and sometimes dilettante, and her support in my field assignments cannot be properly repaid in this life.

Finally, my thanks to the people of Daggerdale, and especially the administration of the Yellow Abbey. The access I was granted there, and the chance to collaborate with the devout and pious clergy of Amaunator in this distant place is an opportunity offered to few in the world, such as it is in these times. Dean Thunderstorm and Bishop Whitegate offered hospitality beyond common obligation, and unprecedented access to their library and those within. I hope our order is able to extend the same hospitality to them in the future.

==Preface==

In midsummer of 1479 DR, the Order learned of a great struggle in the distant land of Daggerdale. The nature of this struggle was, on the surface, that of two clashing polities; the powerful Empire of Netheril, and the small but tenacious Daggerdale. Daggerdale has checked the advance of its ruthless and imperialistic neighbour since the Spellplague, and today continues to exemplify the triumph of the small and righteous over the great and wicked. However, a divine struggle was at the core of this conflict, and it was this aspect of the struggle which brought me to Daggerdale, in the autumn of 1479. I immediately made contact with Magistrate Hoetmer, as instructed. This kind man was already known to us, and was inextricably woven into this conflict.

The seasons I spent in the Historic Wing of the Yellow Abbey before the summer of 1480, and the manner in which I researched the struggle and looked for solutions to the myriad threats to the people of Daggerdale is well documented already in my report from Kythorn 4, 1480. However, I will summarize it neatly, herein.

Daggerdale is run by an amazing and accomplished bureaucracy that is robust, if not a bit daunting. They employ a system of messages and intelligence that I do not believe is matched in their part of the world. The volume of information that they generate is unbelievable, and to criticize their system just a little, I must say that they were unable to process it all effectively. This is where my talents were offered and properly employed by the Bishop of Dagger Falls, Blaze Whitegate.

On the eve of the Saint’s Battle, there were two major fronts in the war with Netheril. The more overtly military front was on the western border of the dale, where forces were arrayed for a full-scale war. The other front was in the heartland of the dale, where a trio of agents of Netheril, now known as the Dark Garden, worked to cause strife and discord within the population of the dale. It was on this front that my skills were employed. The Dark Garden also used a system of intelligence and complicated ruses to accomplish their task, which was to instigate powerful cults of Shar in the Dale. My previous report summarizes the relationship between the Dale and Shar, and I shall not delve too deeply into this convoluted and storied relationship here. Suffice it to say that there was fertile ground for these covens to be established, and the government in the Dale could not get ahead of these clever villainesses.

The White Cloaks (refer to my last report for details about this organization) took on the task of hunting the Dark Garden. There were many capable men and women in their ranks, and the thumb-screw methods of the zealot Alystair Dretch were enough to uncover the least of the established covens. I have much to say about Mr. Dretch, but I will simply state here that this man got results when no one else was able to pin down any operation of the Dark Garden. His cooperation with Magistrate Hoetmer was instrumental in setting into motion a series of events that culminated in the complete extermination of the Dark Garden, and the triumph of the Dale over Netheril.

For my part, I dissected the voluminous stacks of reports that came daily to the Tower, and acting upon intelligence gathered by the White Cloak team lead by Iolus Warburton (more on this man, later in this report), was able to locate one of the major covens established by the Dark Garden. I was also able to help the enigmatic Magistrate Hoetmer with his Aetherial Gift (more on this later), which in return helped in the final reconnaissance and siege upon Liberty Hill Farm.

Such was my role; gatherer of knowledge, and advisor. There have been many days since the 1st of Kythorn 1480 that I have regretted this role, for I played a part in sending many men and women off to kill and to die. However, in the end it brought a peace to the Dale that has not been seen in over 100 years, and in the end, I gained a few friends so close that to be away from them now, cloistered here in Waterdeep, is a pain almost beyond enduring.

This report will summarize the political and religious situation in Daggerdale on the eve of the Saint’s Battle. It will provide a brief account of the major parties involved in the conflict. The Saint’s Battle itself will not be dealt with in much detail by my pen; I am including a dozen accounts of this battle by credible chroniclers who fought there, and my contribution cannot match theirs; I was not at that Battle.

The focus of this report will be on the events that unfolded after the Battle, and how peace came to the dale, and how a devastated community was not only rebuilt, but grew beyond what it was before the Shadow fell upon it.

I will state presently that this is not an unbiased account. The Canoness is aware that I became emotionally involved in this assignment, despite her warnings. Indeed, I fell in love with Magistrate Hoetmer. The death of my Phin still brings me to tears, even though I have received the switch a number of times for my conspicuous disregard of my duty to remain emotionless. It is well known by the sisterhood that I begged for an extension of this assignment, and that I stayed on a year after the Battle. However, it is not known that Phin was not the only reason I stayed on; unfortunately, he died shortly after the Battle, and it was the friendship of Troia Trustar and Lumina Whitegate that kept me there. I very nearly did not return from Liberty Hill. My mind is, as ever, focused on the Order and my duties, but my heart remains with those two women, inside the white stone walls of that happy place.

As per the Directives of the Order, the original copy of this manuscript has been left in-situ; it resides in the Historic Wing of the Yellow Abbey. I happily submit this copy to the Order, to be enshrined in the Font of Knowledge among much greater works.

— Sr. Sp. S. Estelmer

25 Eleasias, 1481 DR.

==The Shadow’s Reach: The Situation in Daggerdale on the Eve of the Saints’ Battle==
===The Western Front===

Towards the end of the harvest season of 1479, Netherese forces in the plains west of the mountains began to mount. Increased numbers of skirmishes between reconnaissance elements of both Netheril and Daggerdale were reported starting after Harvestide, and persisted until the spring of 1480.

Before the snows had fully receded in the middle of Ches, large forces of Netherese Regulars were seen patrolling just a dozen miles away from both major forts on the border, Lastsun and Sansum. By the beginning of Tarsakh, division-strength Netherese formations were sighted a day away from each fort. Fortunately, the scouting conflicts of the winter were interpreted properly; Lord Whitegate had already authorized a massive military expansion program which included training new companies of Sun Blades, keeping veterans on for a longer term (with a favourable pay), and the hiring of mercenary outfits, some at battalion-strength.

The mount-up to this conflict drained the heretofore bottomless coffers of the Whitegate fortune; there were more mercenaries to pay, and sensing the dire need of the good people of Daggerdale, they duly raised their prices. Mercenaries are a necessary evil in such times, I suppose. Still, it is confirmed that the footmen in the mercenary battalion known as the  were paid 2 gold coins per day to be stationed at Fort Lastsun, which is an unheard-of income for a soldier.

Most of the headquarters-units were stationed on the western front. The upper command of the Sun Blades, General Thunderstorm’s company, was stationed at Lastsun, and most of the upper command of the Order of the Lambent Shield, Luminous included, were stationed at both forts, and saw combat almost daily throughout the summer.

It is the opinion of this sister of the Order of the Tome that the military manoeuvrings in the west were an elaborate distraction from the more proximal threat to the dale, which was the effort of the Dark Garden in the heartland. So long as there were divisions of Netherese regulars threatening the front, troops could not be spared to help in the heartland, and little money was available to hire adventurers to root out the Dark Garden. Fortunately, the White Cloaks took on this responsibility themselves, at their own expense (though they were handsomely rewarded in the end).

===The Heartland===
In the fall of 1479, Alystair Dretch and Tuugan Swift uncovered the least of three powerful covens established by the Dark Garden. They managed to destroy it utterly before it could take a firm footing in the dale, which is fortunate. Their efforts put them in touch with Magistrate Hoetmer, who was already tied to this struggle on some obscure divine level before the White Cloaks even arrived.

In the spring of 1480, the efforts of the Dark Garden became bolder, and their tactics changed dramatically. Having established two covens in the dale through their intricate plotting and devious and protracted plans, they now exploited the situation in the west. Before the snows were gone, nearly every farm found itself in some sort of danger; the usual problems of wolves, orcs, goblins and other common threats were increased dramatically, illustrating the broad reach of the Dark Garden. They had many tribes of orcs and other monsters under their influence, and even controlled many of the baser and meaner creatures of the woods through the villainess known as Deadnettle (a black druid of some variety). At the very time that more men were needed to face Netheril in the west, these problems erupted in the heartland. The threat to each farm was such that none could help another. This was the plan all along; the Dark Garden wanted to isolate the farms where they had established their covens, so that they would have the time to carry out exceptionally sinister rituals to enslave the entire populations of each farm, and also employ many companies of undead.

With all military resources committed to either defending the western front or defending hearth and home, all that remained to ferret out the Dark Garden was the White Cloaks. They did this, at great cost to themselves. Iolus’ team of White Cloaks actually managed to end a significant threat to one farm, Tesh Valley Farm, in the early spring. They uncovered a plot by Deadnettle which involved a Trollspawn (concerning which we haven’t heard in nearly a century) and a black dragon known to us; Kruhwahll. This monster was lured from its home far to the north by Deadnettle in the winter. She used deception to control both it and the sinister breed of trolls that were spawned from the eggs of the dragon and the Trollspawn. I have submitted a detailed report on this topic already.

====The Dagger Hills====
This region is also worth noting, because it is tied to the Dark Garden and the efforts of Netheril, though I am not now sure that there is a direct correlation, but rather one of degrees.

The opening to the Shadowfell that was discovered by the White Cloaks in the summer of 1479 factors into this report significantly. It is known that the Dark Garden went in and out of this opening a number of times, and they likely lead many evil creatures from the Shadowfell, into our world. These creatures disrupted the balance of power in the Dagger Hills in the 1479 (see my report about the White Cloaks’ mission there; cf. also Braxus, Silver Tail Clan), and by 1480, the hills were abroil in conflict which spread out into some of the neighbouring farms. The shadow-things that crept through the hills made conflicts with some of the native population of were-creatures, enslaved some, and allied with yet others. Despite the hasty construction of the new fort, appropriately named the Shadow Dam, over that portal, and the allocation of a good portion of the Order of the Lambent Shield and a new, specially trained company of Sun Blades, the trouble in the hills could not be contained.

It is the speculation of this sister that the opening to the Shadowfell under the Shadow Dam, in the back of the cave previously inhabited by the benign werewolf Braxus, was the creation of the leader of the Dark Garden, the priestess of Shar known as Belladonna. I will go into detail about her and her relationship with Castle Daggerdale below, but I will state here that it is likely that she tried to create an opening from the Shadowfell leading into the fearsome castle in the hills, but that the ritual went slightly wrong, creating the opening a few miles away by mistake, and leading to the Shadowfell Exchange in the Dagger Hills.

====The White Cloaks====
Through the hospitality of White Cloak Tower at Castle Radiance, this organization grew tremendously in the winter of 1480, the hostel that it operated out of the ground floor of the tower working as an effective recruitment tool. By the time conflicts started to spark up like so many forest fires around the farms of the dale, the White Cloaks had three full teams of adventurers to start hunting down the Dark Garden and to try to stem the flow of conflict in the heartland. As stated previously and reported on in-full, the senior team, that lead by Iolus Warburton, was able to identify and drive off one member of the Dark Garden, Deadnettle, and uncover evidence which linked the Dark Garden, although tenuously, to the command structure of Netheril, through the Shade Prince Melegaunt, and his Curator, Loki Mouvranesh. Ironically, many of the new recruits to the White Cloaks had run into Loki the summer previously, which ended badly for them. The results of their failed mission and the staggering repercussions would be seen a year later, at the Saints’ Battle.

By this time, Banitt was bearing the relic of Ardelusk Whitegate, the Blade of the White Saint, and his results with that blade in hand are beyond reproach.

It should be noted that many of the White Cloaks suffered from the same dreams of the Dark Garden (in the actual horticultural sense...more on this term below) that plagued Magistrate Hoetmer. Their connection was not fully understood at the time, and is only theoretically and tenuously explained now, but this connection helped Magistrate Hoetmer to alert select White Cloaks when they were in trouble. This connection alone explains the escape from the trap laid for the White Cloaks at Liberty Hill Farm...

====The Heart of the Shadow, the Heart of the Dale====
The Dark Garden successfully established two covens in the autumn of 1479. The coven at Dwimmerholme Farm, which was to be established by the Dark Garden agent known as Lotus, was foiled by Alystair and Tuugan. However, two were established before that; the lesser of these was at Foothills Farm, and was likely established by Deadnettle, who was operating around there at the time. The greater was at Liberty Hill Farm.

Liberty Hill Farm is the hearth of the Whitegate Family. I have included Ardelusk’s account of his founding of this settlement nearly a century ago to give a sense of the central nature of this place to the prominent family of the dale. This farm had always been exceptionally tolerant of other faiths, despite the strong investment that the Whitegate family has in Amaunator, and it was the proliferation and strength of the Chauntean faith here which was exploited by the Dark Garden. In fact, this was the common ‘weakness’ (I am loathe to label it such) for all three farms; they were tolerant of, and had large Chauntean flocks. The ‘Old Religion’ (as they call Chauntea in the Dales) was used as an inroad for the Sharran cults, and where Chauntea was strong, so too was the influence of the Dark Garden.

I will confess that I felt like I had just graduated from rhetoric school when these facts came to light. The term ‘Dark Garden’ carries with it something of a horticultural suggestion, which should have alerted myself and others to the divine connection and conflict here in the dale. However, no one made this connection until after these events came to a head.

On the eve of the battle, Liberty Hill Farm had become the Heart of the Shadow. The Dark Garden members had all collected there, and elaborate rituals were used to turn the population of the town into malign and shadowy versions of themselves. There was some resistance to this evil plot as it unfolded, and some of the people of the farm realized what was happening and fought back.

Here is a reconstruction of the events at the Farm, as I interpret them;

;*1372
:The real history and the events leading up to the battle begin with the Battle of Liberty Hill, in the distant past. Both Ardelusk and the woman known as Arabella Needle fought in this battle, and their descendants ordered the battle that took place there in 1480, though they were now on opposite sides of the same conflict.

;*1374
:Needle, now going by the name ‘Liberty’, and with a boy-child in tow, visited the farm that Ardelusk had started, and encouraged him to name the farm Liberty Hill. The boy was none other than Gaebril Tremalkin-Liberty, the son of the famous Knight of Shar and the Needle woman. Unfortunately, Needle had already taken the darker path offered by Shar in those days, misinterpreting the message of the Black Knight. Needle’s line was prolific, and many of her descendants, through the Tremalkin boy, still live, including Belladonna herself.

;*1395
:Ardelusk moves the Cenotaph of Paladin’s Grave, and the Knights interred therein, from Anathar’s Dell to their new resting place on the western side of the town at Liberty Hill. These same Knights would be raised by the wicked Belladonna in the spring of 1480 to assist in the battle.

;*1455
:This was a pivotal year for a number of reasons. First, the Whitegate family (the most significant family of Amaunatori) was joined with the Forester family (the most significant family of Chaunteans) in the union of Perspicuus and Lanya. This brought Liberty Hill into the Chauntean fold, which increased the health and wealth of the farm tremendously, but also provided an in-road for the Dark Garden. The wedding, on the 1st of Kythorn, turned into a massacre, as Dorian of Sembia returned from the dead, seemingly as some vampire or revenant, to wreak havoc and death at the ceremony. The account given by Decker Blackmane, which we have had for many years, is close, but it misses the mark. Dorian was not in charge of the forces of undead that fought in the fields, taking the lives of Loedegan and Madigan. It was in fact Belladonna who mustered those ranks. She in fact it was that summoned Dorian himself to this massacre.

:At the time Belladonna lived at Crossed Blades Farm (though she spent much of her time at Castle Daggerdale), with her daughters. She engineered the massacre as a means of elevating the station of the Chaunteans at the farm, and she was largely successful. She or her agents were able to convince the people of the farm and the administration of the Church that the malevolent powers opposed to the Dale recognized that the marriage of the Whitegates and Foresters, of Amaunator with Chauntea, would be catastrophic for their evil plots. So, an army of undead was arrayed to end the wedding, but the assault failed. Belladonna was at the wedding ceremony, and it was she that incapacitated Dorian, her minion, just as Argent attacked it.

:I have not told a soul in the ‘Dale this last fact, as it would detract from the authority and esteem of the Bishop, and this fact alone has been kept out of the original manuscript of this report, Oghma forgive me.

:But I must continue with 1455; Belladonna installed one of her daughters in the town at Liberty Hill that year; the Chauntean (in public, but Sharran behind closed doors) Remalla Goering (Goering was a man with whom Belladonna had paired at Crossed Blades, but who had died mysteriously). Remalla was only 15 years old, but she was a good friend of Lanya’s, and so she was raised as a sister to this now well-bred woman. She would grow in prosperity and power at Liberty Hill, ultimately becoming the elected mayor in 1477, when Lumen Whitegate abdicated governance of the farm to an elected official.

:Also in 1455, construction of the Table of the Sun was started and completed. The Table was originally designed to carry out an elaborate ritual, divinely delivered to Argent, to contain the evil of Castle Daggerdale. This ritual has been ongoing since the late autumn of that year, though its location was moved to the Yellow Abbey sub-basement in 1457, mostly to get out of the elements. I have asked Argent about this ritual, but it is the one secret he will not relinquish. He has only stated that “the sacrifice of the clerics that maintain the ritual, giving up entire months of their lives to chant continuously, is nothing compared to the sacrifices made by the men who made the ritual possible” and will state no more.

;*1470s
:Sometime late in this decade, Belladonna assembled the Dark Garden, and began a tenuous relationship with Netheril, through the Agent known as Curator Loki Mouvranesh. They began to organize banditry and other small crimes in the dale, slowly escalating to the plots and events of 1479/80. The exact nature of the relationship between Netheril and the Dark Garden is not fully understood, though it is clear that it was not one of a clear chain of command.

;*Mirtul, 1479
:The group of adventurers known as Mule Company, some of whom would later be rolled into the ranks of the White Cloaks, attempt to claim a bounty (cf. Last Sands of Anauroch bounty.) They run afoul of Mouvranesh, who has beaten them to the Netherese ruin, and has already begun an excavation. She uncovers the Imperiosus Orbis, which she uses to command the winds to hasten excavation of the site. Mule Company is unable to defeat her, and is driven off after the death of one of their members. Though it was not apparent at the time, this was a turning point in the war with Netheril; the powerful Netherese Orbs were used to bolster a number of malevolent rituals carried out by the Shades, including the rituals that transformed Liberty Hill (see below).

;*Kythorn 10, 1479
:Summer Solstice and new moon. This was the first successful Ritual of Founding that the Dark Garden achieved. This was the first we missed, though we knew, after the events of Harvestide that year (cf. Investigations of Alystair Dretch, 1479) that we had missed something. This was the culmination of decades of inculcation of the cult of Shar at Liberty Hill, masterminded by Mayor Goering, with the help of her mother and the Dark Garden. It now seems that as many as 140 people were part of this cult and the ritual.

;*Early Spring, 1480
:Belladonna begins to assemble an undead horde, unearthing the evil paladins and soldiers interred at Anathar’s Dell, a place that very few could now find.

;*Spring, 1480
:The conflict on the Western Front escalates to such a degree that no man can be spared; the heartland, despite being under an increased level of threats, most of which have been engineered by the Dark Garden, has no additional forces to aid the struggle against the villainous trio.

;*Late Kythorn or Early Mirtul, 1480
:Belladonna is given the Slave Orbs for the Imperiosus Orbis, which will facilitate the exceptionally powerful rituals in the days to come. The Slave Orbs allow for the channelling of the tremendous power of the Orbis to a remote location.

;*Mirtul 19, 1480
:New moon. I believe this is the date that the Ritual of Transcendence was completed, with the aid of the Slave Orbs, turning much of the town into the shadow slaves that were later fought at the Battle. At this point, the entire farm was under complete control of the cult of Shar, and the Dark Garden. Goering, now a shadow-kind and priestess of Shar, was the ruler of the town in its new hellish form, though Belladonna was the head of the cult in the region. All but prepubescent children were converted into shadow slaves. The children were kept in a barn, and were slated to be sold to the Bloody Eye, a slaving and bandit outfit that the Dark Garden had employed/manipulated for nearly a decade. This never happened, thankfully.

:The ‘transcendence’ did not go smoothly. There was a resistance mounted against this ritual, and the entire town was thrown into a violent massacre of brother against brother. The terrible stories of this black day continue to be told by its survivors, and each new story brings a new river of tears.

:Nearly a hundred adults in the farm seemed to have the same resistance to the powerful transcendence ritual as did the children; this included the entire clergy of faithful Amaunatori, as well as many in the Whitegate family. Those that resisted but were not killed in the massacre, were kept alive for an even fouler purpose a few days later.

;*Mirtul 19-21, 1480
:Belladonna unearths the bodies of the Fist mercenaries, interred beneath the three great cairns on the edge of the farm, using the labour of the shadow slaves.

;*Mirtul 21, 1480
:Ritual of Corruption begins. The summoning of the Soul of Corruption is complete, again with the aid of the Slave Orbs, but control of the thing is tenuous; a host of clerics chant at all times to maintain control of it. The Soul of Corruption is known to the Order, but I believe I am the first to have any involvement so close with the thing. It was likely employed to keep people both in and out of the farm.

:The Ritual of Corruption needed not only the bolstering might of the Slave Orbs, but a constant supply of fresh blood, which was grotesquely provided by the prisoners that resisted the transcendence. These unfortunate souls were eviscerated and then hung, still living but in unthinkable agony, from the walls of the Table of the Sun. Their eviscerations and hangings were expertly carried out so as to leave them living for as long as possible; so long as blood dripped from their still-living bodies, the Ritual of Corruption could be maintained. In this horrifying and gruesome fashion, every member of the Whitegate family that resided at the farm perished, as did Magistrate Zuldrick. Their corpses were found decorating the walls by those that survived the Battle.

;*Mirtul 23, 1480
:Alystair Dretch and Tuugan Swift attempt to investigate the farm, based on their own research (Hoetmer and I had arrived at the conclusion that this investigation was necessary at the same time, but to their credit, the White Cloaks were a step ahead of us). The pair of able White Cloaks were rebuked by the Soul of Corruption, which met them on the road and drove them off. They had fought through throngs of orcs to get that far, but their determination was no match for this new terror.

;*Mirtul 25, 1480
:Alystair and Tuugan return to Dagger Falls, and link up with many of their fellow White Cloaks. The group of them met with Hoetmer and myself, and we discussed what we thought was going on at the farm. We were not fully aware of what the situation might be, and unanimously decided that another team had to attempt to get into the farm to see what was going on. Alystair, Tuugan, Alen Reks, Ganolen Thendolain, and Troia Trustar were formed into a team and headed out to investigate immediately.

;*Mirtul 26, 1480
:The investigative team of Whitecloaks manages to outmanoeuvre the Soul of Corruption, only to discover the horrible truth about Liberty Hill. The entire farm is cloaked in illusion, under the Ritual of Obfuscation; this ritual was also made possible by the powerful influence of the Imperiosus Orbis. The town and the people appeared to be normal, even though in truth the streets were littered with bodies and debris, and the pale faces and empty black eyes that looked down at them from a hundred windows were likewise masked in a visage of innocence.

:The White Cloaks were being led into a trap by Lt. Hardigan and Priestess/Mayor Goering. Unaware of the horrifying truth of the place, they followed the evil Sharrans, and would have been led directly to their deaths, if not for the intervention of Phin. Phin was following the White Cloaks in his Aetherial Dream, and the illusory magic of that terrible ritual did not extend to the Aether. He called out to them, and Alystair and Troia heard him, before they were led into the keep, where a score of undead and shadow-kind assassins waited. Once Alistair and Troia saw through the illusion, a desperate battle and flight took place. The entire town mobilized against the five White Cloaks, and they barely escaped with their lives. Tuugan will not even recount the tale to his friends; the man’s character has been forever changed by his experience.

;*Mirtul 28, 1480
:The White Cloaks return to Dagger Falls, to find that Lumina and the rest of the White Cloaks have already arrived there. At a conference with every available officer in both military structures, the upper ranks of the clergy of Amaunator, myself and the White Cloaks, it is decided that a siege will be laid to Liberty Hill as soon as a host can be assembled. For a few frantic hours, those capable of inspiring men and women to arms went door-to-door, and in the end, an army was assembled (cf. Army of the White Saint). They marched out of Dagger Falls that evening at double time.

;*Kythorn 1, 1480
:The Army of the White Saint arrives at Crossed Blades Farm, where it is joined by Knight Commander Pauldron, Banitt Harbaugh, a ride of Knights, and a company of volunteer militia from the already-beleaguered farm. By late afternoon, they arrive at the fields of Liberty Hill, and the Saint’s Battle is joined.

That is a short-version of the events that lead up to the Saint’s Battle, but I think it lays out neatly the salient events that brought the men of Daggerdale to slaughter each other in that terrible conflict.

As noted, I will not recount the Battle. I was not there. I have collected tales of this historic battle as they have come to me, and have included a few of the more notable ones in this report. Those are appended to this report.

I shall now go into the aftermath of the Battle, which I will divide into three periods; immediate, rebuilding, and prosperity.
Shadow Lifted
