Information compiled by Sandoval Luchra, Rank Three Watch Wizard of Waterdeep, 1457 DR
----

== The Inscrutable Assignment ==

I am unable to reveal who has given me this assignment; not out of some manner of desire to keep the identity of my taskmaster secret but simply because the task has been give to me by my superior, an individual who hasn’t the wits to dream up such a task or with any motive to do so.

A score of days has passed since I was first saddled with this task where I was informed that for every page of information I could gather and once the information on the pages had been shown to be true, I would be given a platinum piece for each page.

At first, I was under the impression that this was some manner of ruse but the more information I am able to attain regarding my task, the more I am beginning to think that possibly one platinum piece per page is not enough to document the story of the individual I have been asked to research and moreso, I am curious as to why some Oghman or wizard in Candlekeep has not been set upon this task.

It seems that the individual I have been tasked with researching goes by a number of titles and I will do what I can to list them in a manner that seems chronological when he used the names or was given them.

*Leirran Grennirath
*Leir Grennirath
*Steele
*Leir Tremalkin
*Leir Grimbold

All of these names have proven to weave a remarkably complex web but at they all culminate in a single thread that leads to a wood elf from the forests north by north west of Waterdeep.

== A Singular Elf ==

From what I have been able to piece together, Leirran Grennirath started his existence in an unknown forest north of Waterdeep. A number of people have speculated about the exact location but there is no evidence to support anything definitive.

What is definitive is that Leirran grew up showing an aptitude for nearly everything he encountered. Where some show a leaning towards magic, they study such. Where some show a leaning towards craftsmanship, battle, or tactics, they study each of those respectively. In some ways, their lives are significantly less complicated because they have fewer options made available to them. It seems Leirran dabbled; he would come close to mastering something and then grow bored. His boredom is what led him out of the forest to the chaos of Waterdeep. In his seventy-ninth year, Leirran Grennirath became associated with a group of adventurers that referred to themselves as The . He introduced himself to his new companions as simply, “Steele”.  His companions consisted of the following:

*Kennyth Thames – Priest of Oghma
*Gaebril Tremalkin - Archer
*Kyahs Agbar – Priest of Torm
*Phineous Reoul – Wild Mage
*Gable – Thief
*Tallanvor Durinbold – Warrior
*Rychel Voordan* - Ranger
*Bram Durinbold** - Warrior, possibly ranger with a pet bear?

(* Joined the Warders shortly after the creation of the group; ** Joined the Warders upon the death of Tallanvor Durinbold)

The Warders became embroiled in some manner of Drow conspiracy that involved a number of noble house in Waterdeep, a hidden Drow city, far to the north and the possible slaying of an ancient blue dragon, and a number of destructive battles against a warlock by the name of Hagan.

=== Puritan ===
thumb|The Dalael of Vhaeraun, cherished enemies
thumb|The conjuror Hagan, a hated friend
What seemed to affect and bother Steele the most was the realization that Drow were walking about, disguised and weaving their web of control and manipulation throughout Waterdeep. Drow had been a problem long before the Warders encountered them in and beneath the city, but testimonials taken from relatives of city guardsman from that era insist that the Warders brought battling and slaying of Drow to an entirely new level. They used countless magical items to dispel the darkness that the Drow were known for, as well as creating and paying for the creation of a number of never-before-seen items of wonder that worked directly against typical Drow tactics.

In particular, Gable, Rychel and Steele used an extensive amount of magic items to make them highly effective against the Drow, an enemy that they were growing more and more hateful towards.

Not only had the Drow, but the warlock, Hagan played a possible role in Steele’s demeanour. Hagan was an individual that particularly fancied invisibility spells. Rumour had it that the warlock had a giant spider as a familiar that could itself turn invisible. None of this can be particularly confirmed but I would like to put forth that over time Steele became known for his complete and utter lack of tolerance and patience for subterfuge as a direct result of his dealings with the Drow and this warlock. Both parties were particularly well known for misdirection, manipulation and in some cases, actual invisibility, and drove Steele towards the paranoid and mistrustful demeanour that he became notorious for in the years prior to the Spellplague. There are accounts from witnesses seeing Steele going to great lengths to attack his foes as quickly, violently and spectacularly as possible in order discourage enemies in the future. One tale in particular involves Steele tackling a Drow from House Dalael (possibly a Drow noble family?) off a sixty foot tower, and stabbing the Drow repeatedly on the way down, even as he was being stabbed by the Drow he tackled. He was reckless beyond imagination but always managed to survive whatever dire situation he found himself in.

Some time shortly after his first encounter with the warlock, Hagan; Steele crafted a pair of strange looking goggles that testimonials say he never took off. It is believes that a number of true seeing gems were used in the creation of the goggles and they had a distinct insectoid like appearance with multiple facets. It is said that the goggles allowed Steele to see in the dark, as well as see things that were invisible. Considering the opponents that Steele arrayed himself against; they were put to use often.

=== Delver ===

At some point following the supposed death of an ancient blue dragon, Steele ventured into the Underdark with his companions Gable, and Rychel. The three were possibly puffed up over their success in the past in dealing with Drow and it was decided that the fight would be taken directly to the Drow in their home for a change.

Patrons of the Dripping Dagger that overheard the drunken ramblings of Steele and Gable, following their journey into the Underdark suggests that the three emboldened heroes did not get far. Apparently the first encounter they had with Drow while deep beneath the ground involved the three heroes being terribly outmatched and forcing them to flee into the confusing, dark labyrinth of the Underdark. It is theorized that the human, elf and half-elf were lost in the Underdark for four months. Surviving on whatever food and water they could stumble across. When finally rescued, all three had been changed by the experience but Steele seemed to have been the most affected.
thumb|Steele's misfortune
Some manner of fungus had exploded close to Steele’s face, scarring his flesh and causing him excruciating pain but of a greater concern was that some manner of mushroom or grub that Steele had eaten while lost in the Underdark had negatively affected his mind. Steele had been an impatient, intolerant and unforgiving individual to begin with and his mind now had him exhibiting paranoia at uncontrollable levels. He saw shadows and enemies everywhere and was the only one of the three that was unable to walk out of the Underdark on his own feet.

Kennyth Thames, using his influence with The Font of Knowledge and Gaebril Tremalkin, using his influence with the temple of Selûne in Waterdeep brought in knowledge and healers to restore Steele’s mind to what it once was.

In the end, Steele was his fully functional self but I believe this was another step towards the downward spiral of the elf known as Leirran Grennirath. There are a number of testimonials from once-companions as well as patrons of the Dripping Dagger that speak of Steele muttering to himself quietly and wringing his hands as if distressed. Perhaps the healing was not as effective as it could have been, or perhaps the healing was only as effective as it could be when bringing someone back from the edge of madness?

=== Agent ===

Either way it seemed that everyone was pleased with Steele being back to his relatively intolerant and paranoid self when sometime shortly thereafter, Steele became a member of a group called Force Grey. Force Grey is a group of individuals that operates in the Waterdeep area and rumoured to report directly to Khelben Arunsun, The Blackstaff at the time. Knowledge of Force Grey’s existence is...well...there generally is not any common knowledge regarding Force Grey. Were it not for a package left upon my doorstep yesterday, I would have ended my writing at the emerging of Steele and his companions from the Underdark.

It is important to note that at this time, I fear that I am well in over my head. The package that was left on my doorstep speaks about things that you hear from your drunken, great uncle at highsun on Harvestide. Actually, I am wrong. My drunken uncle’s tales always ended happily. What I have here are tales that, if they DO end, do so in a frightening and horrid manner. I do not wish to complete this task I was given but my curiosity compels me onward. I have access to side of Waterdeep that is fascinating and terrifying. It makes me afraid to simply walk outside my room. It makes me afraid to simply sleep in my bed. The coin that was promised to me is of little import now. I am quite sure that upon completion of this, or during the writing of this, I will end up much as many of the others I have read about of late. I will end up dead.

Force Grey. Force Grey was a group of individuals that were tasked with dispatching horrors and removing trouble from Waterdeep that not even the most drunken tavern reveller can imagine. They live in shadows and work in darkness and had I ever encountered one of these men, had one of these men been standing before me, I would go insane with fear contemplating what manner of abomination might be approaching me from behind.

It has been revealed to me that despite Steele’s propensity for intolerance and impatience, his mastery of spells, knife-work, and simply 'getting the job done' was enough to earn him membership in the elite group that was Force Grey. There are references to a number of missions he undertook, but the one that I believe further pushed him into darkness was something involving the Encyclopaedae Ocularis Indomitus. I can only assume that this is some manner of powerful arcane tome but from what I have been able to discern from the scratchings that have been delivered to me, this tome somehow involved Drow, the old faction known as the Zhentarim, Chessentan vampires and the strange creatures known as beholders.

=== Cynic ===

There is simply too much to absorb regarding everything that transpired during all of this but at some point, Steele stopped battling with the Drow (House Dalael) and instead became their partner, or possibly their pawn. I can only speculate as to why Steele changed sides. Many will attest to the fact that Steele was never afraid to be on the losing side of a fight. He believed in his own abilities and skill so greatly that even when he lost, it simply never bothered him, as he knew that there would be a reckoning. A number of occurrences involve Steele being heard to say, “I am simply so weary of all of this. Not the fighting and not the violence, but the complete and utter lack of progress from all the parties involved. None of us seem capable enough to succeed in our own agendas so we simply wrap ourselves in one another’s webs and intrigues, which only serves to mire all of us together in misery.” There were other times when he was heard to say, “I despise this city and everyone within it, above it and under it. The realms would be all the better were the fabled city of splendours scoured from the ground that it sits upon. In the end...all of these people, from the street beggars’ whores in Dock Wards to the Blackstaff himself...they will all get what they deserve and I can only hope that I am here to see it all.”

It is important to note that while Steele sounded incredibly hateful, he was frighteningly devoted to those few who had been in the Warders of Waterdeep with him. In fact, it seems as though the more time he spent away from his one-time companions and instead with this Force Grey (and a rabble known as the Company of the Red Herring), the further he withdrew into his own thoughts - thoughts which grew darker and darker.

It is said that Steele assisted House Dalael in the kidnapping of a small girl, turned on his companions from Force Grey, and also tried to outright murder two esteemed wizards (whose names I cannot find) by sealing them in some manner of pyramid.

If what I have recorded sounds maddening, I assure you that my own summary offers but a fraction of the madness I sense myself from my own sources. Simply by reading these tales, I feel that I have become as a rat in a labyrinth dreamed into existence by some mad god, who finds pleasure in confusing and torturing those trapped within.

I cannot say that I am surprised that Steele became more and more insane as time passed.

=== Slayer ===
thumb|400px|Romulus, the Master Vampire at the heart of the infection
While marked as a villain by many within the walls of Waterdeep, Steele was reported to have paired up with Rychel Voordan and go on a rampage through “Little Chessenta” in Waterdeep. At one point, the two enigmatic rogues were spotted at the harbour, followed by chanting Lathanderites and carrying a staked and bound vampire. Steele was never one for subtlety and tended to believe that the most sure-fire way to cut through the ignorance so prevalent in the city of splendours was to make thing utterly undeniable in the public eye. The vampire was thrown in the waters of the harbour and after nothing was left of the monster, Steele fetched the stake from the water and carefully laid it on the ground as Voordan said with a matter-of-fact conviction: “We will be lining up more stakes next to this one before the end of the day.”

Although few in the crowd were able to see the eyes of the elf known as Steele, later testimonials alluded to the smile of almost savage pleasure that came to the lips of the strange, scarred elf as his partner spoke.

At the end of the day, a huge crowd had formed and cheered more and more loudly each time more of the undead abominations were thrown into the waters of the harbour. Four vampires had been rooted out of city and the two strange heroes confirmed that they would be going after the sire next. All of this was incredibly unusual for the city. The citizenry are generally kept in the dark about the unchecked dangers that walk among them but Steele revelled in the revealing of the truth to the simple folk and Rychel Voordan simply wanted to complete his appointed task.

Things became less certain after that. It is rumoured that the two encountered Romulus but were unable to defeat the Master Vampire in its lair. There are also rumours following these events of Steele attacking a patrol of Waterdeep guards single-handedly and nearly slaying the bound prisoner that they were leading to the prison. There is no information regarding why Steele attacked the guards or this seemingly harmless prisoner and much of it has been accredited once more to the elf's insanity. The more I read about and research this elf, the more I think that there might have been something awry in his mind, but I also believe that he was an individual simply trying to make the best of the tangled web of evil and iniquity that he was aware of in Waterdeep.

Further information provided within the bundle that I found on my doorstep reveals speculation on the fact that at some point, Steele became the thrall of the Master Vampire that he and Rychel attempted to destroy. There is little to no information regarding what happened to Steele after that.

=== Witchfinder ===
thumb|The Thayvian Rune City of Eltabbar
The next information regarding Steele is in 1377 DR. It is unknown if he was still under the influence of the vampire that he was rumoured to have been controlled by but in Marpenoth of 1377 DR, four individuals gathered in the Dripping Dagger. All of this information has been provided to me by unidentifiable sources and I am unable to prove their veracity but much of it seems so...outlandish and unreal...it is all so mad, that I fear it to be the truth.

Steele gathered together three individuals that were once companions of his.

Rychel Voordan, Edgar Grimbold (using the alias Stuart Bold at the time), and Innish Pyet. All four had a history of violence as well as extreme competence at dispatching enemies and their reunion certainly hinted that some individual or group were soon to have a very difficult go of things.

Steele had barely begun his proposition when Grimbold agreed to assist him. The other two, Voordan and Pyet were known for their patience and wisdom and took all of what Steele had to say and much discussion followed. In time, the two remaining rogues agreed to Steele’s plan but there was arguing between Steele and Pyet regarding some manner of betrayal that had occurred in Undermountain a few years prior.

In the end, Steele’s plan was agreed upon and it consisted of the following:

Capture the warlock known as Hagan and dispose of the wretch once and for all. Grimbold was extremely passionate about the plan, clearly having an extensive history with the warlock as well as despising mages in general. Voordan had a past with the warlock as well, although not as extensive as Grimbold and it seems he agreed to assist out of some manner of misplaced loyalty to his old companion from the Warders of Waterdeep. There is very little reason regarding why Pyet agreed to the mission Steele was suggesting. It wasn’t until hearing the entirety of the plan that Pyet actually agreed and it is theorized that the elf agreed to it, simply because it was a challenge that seemed nigh unto impossible. Innish Pyet laughed at the impossible. He was known for it.

The plan was more elaborate than simply killing a seemingly impossible to kill warlock. Steele had information - a great deal of it - regarding the location of Hagan as well as the warlock’s plans. Steele had confirmation, both arcane and divine that Hagan would be beneath the city of Eltabbar, in a long since abandoned tomb, seeking out an artifact of power exactly six months from the current day. The four would travel to Thay, infiltrate the dangerous city of Eltabbar, locate the tomb wherein Hagan would be found, and slay the warlock.

=== Avenger ===

I have an entire stack of parchment that details the journey these four made and it...it is beyond anything I could ever imagine. It’s a tale that small boys tell one another when they are trying to come up with a more magnificent lie than the one their friend told previously.

I can only say that these four rogues did things that could only be described as impossible. Had they been given the task of infiltrating the heavens and stealing Torm’s blade...I have little reason to believe they would fail.

Steele drew on no small amount of resources to facilitate this mission of vengeance and there is speculation that his coin came from his dealings with the Drow of House Dalael, but his three companions did not seem bothered by this.

In the end, the four shadows found themselves in an ancient tomb, surrounded by ancient constructs and traps, ready to do battle with a warlock of no small ability.

I must stop the telling of the tale for a moment as I believe I am in danger. In the last three days, in simply travelling to the library and the market, I am sure I am being followed. I have learned that in the last two tendays anything related to Steele has been removed from the library. The wards in the library have somehow been nullified and the information utterly removed. I am worried that some manner of contingency plan that Steele created a century ago has somehow been set in motion and that I am in great danger.

I will discontinue this for the moment until I am able to ascertain what exactly is transpiring and if able, I will continue with the tale.

It has been a little over a month and I am reluctant to write about where I am currently located. I fully believe that Steele or some other individual is attempting to find information out about me as I write this and I have been fortunate to find someone willing to assist me in providing a place of safety.

The four shadows had found their target; the warlock known as Hagan. There were no speeches. No attempts to parlay. Hagan was a man of few words to begin with but his history with Steele, Grimbold, and Voordan left little in the way of negotiation to be had. Deep beneath the surface, surrounded by dead wizards and patriarchs in their coffins, a horrible and vicious battle began. Arcane energies streamed through the air, heating it and transforming into various colours as Hagan, Steele, and Innish began casting. Voordan was running up a wall and then across the ceiling towards the warlock, only to be blocked by a giant spider that had been invisible only moments before. Grimbold charged headlong towards the warlock, shouting obscenities, his eyes and hands glowing with a strange, black energy that seemed to absorb the spells that Hagan cast his way.

It was a frightening and violent battle but not a long one. The four shadows stood victorious over the incapacitated warlock, his familiar, dead upon the floor. They were all grievously injured, and even through the use of supplemental magics and potions, they were an exhausted and weary group but an underground tomb in Thay is not a place where one should tarry long.

=== Raider ===

Steele produced a bejewelled ancient looking bracelet from out of the folds of his cloak and placed it around the wrist of the unconscious and badly injured warlock they had captured. A faint click could be heard inside the quiet of the tomb as the bracelet closed around Hagan’s wrist and the warlock quickly disappeared. Had this been any other group of explorers, this might have seemed odd or caused some confusion amongst the other members of the group.

Pyet simply raised one eyebrow. The elf rarely showed any emotion but at this point it was clear to see he was mildly impressed.

“Teleportation...I see. Have any more of those?”

Steele had turned away from the three other rogues and was already moving down a hallway that led away from their exit and he simply held up one hand without speaking. As he lifted his hand, he raised two fingers in the air as an answer to Pyet’s inquiry.

Although the three other rogues wished to be free of this place as quickly as possible, Steele clearly had other plans and out of loyalty, the other three followed.

When the other three caught up with Steele, they found him standing upon a dais, with a large, bronze throne seated upon it. The throne was covered in all manner of ancient arcane and diabolic sigils and clearly radiated evil, even to the four rogues that weren’t exactly known for their piety.

A second bracelet was pulled from Steele’s cloak and quickly, and smoothly placed around a rung that was between two legs of the large throne. Once more, a faint click was heard, followed immediately by the disappearance of the evil artifact.

“That leaves you with one more,” Pyet spoke matter-of-factly.

Steele turned and his eyes could not be seen beneath the multi-faceted, glittering surface of his ever-present goggles. He simply motioned with his head in the direction the four had entered.

“Now, we leave,” he spoke in a subdued tone.

=== Forsaker ===
thumb|Szass Tam|350px
The four had entered the room where they had battled Hagan and were surprised to find the far end of the room full of undead. Silently swaying...as if waiting for them. Floating above the necrotic masses was an individual that none of the four had ever met, but immediately recognized.

The individual spoke in a clear and almost light-hearted tone as its voice echoed off the walls of the large, ancient tomb.

“I simply cannot abide a thief; in this case, thieves...as it were. I was content to allow you to use this as the place to settle your argument with that clumsy mage but I simply must draw the line at robbery.”

The creature known as Szass Tam simply lifted both skeletal arms and the mass of undead creatures beneath him surged forward silently towards the four, with only clattering and shuffling sounds accompanying their slow, purposeful charge.

Nothing was said by the four. Their response was to draw their weapons and meet the charge...all but Steele. Grimbold was fully engaged with the battle and doing everything he could to draw closer to the lich that floated overhead, while Pyet and Voordan both looked back to Steele.

Steele had lifted his goggles and levelled a seemingly sorrow-filled look toward Voordan and spoke.

“I am sorry.”

Voordan simply looked away and renewed the effort with battling the horde of undead while Pyet snarled. “Not like this! You and I WILL speak about this!”

Steele had already lowered his goggles and clipped the third and final bracelet about his wrist, disappearing shortly thereafter even as the air where he had once stood crackled with green and black lightning that shot from Tam’s bony fingers.

My notes end there. There is some speculation that Steele has the warlock Hagan captured in some secluded place where he tortures him, keeping the warlock from succumbing to his wounds by some fell magic.

=== Sphinx ===

It has been two months since I last wrote in this journal.  I was under the belief that Steele was no longer alive and none of the three rogues he had abandoned nearly a century ago survived the battle with Szass Tam.

New information has me believing otherwise.

I have had information passed onto me by a mage that assures me Steele is alive and as well as he can be. The average Waterdhavian would know him as The Sphinx, the mysterious, unforgiving and dangerous leader of The Mercykillers.

I believe that I have been set upon this task by a survivor of the battle against Szass Tam. I believe that Innish Pyet has been feeding me information regarding Steele’s past in order to draw attention to myself and thereby draw out Steele.

Pyet has been using me as bait and what occurred two days ago all but confirms it. Pyet and Steele did battle with one another on the rooftops of the buildings across the street from where I am. Pyet was identified, even after all this time and although the identity of the other combatant remained unknown to witnesses, I have researched Steele enough to know that it indeed was he who did battle with Pyet, injured him and then fled.

I have been a pawn in a chess game that started over a century ago.

I now know that I need to leave Waterdeep and as expeditiously as possible.

== Post Scriptum ==
It is the sad task assigned to me to report that Sandoval Luchra was murdered on the seventeenth day of Alturiak, 1458 DR. The caravan with which she was leaving Waterdeep was assaulted just outside the northern gate by clearly identified members of the .  It is said that the Sphinx led the assault, and through the use of the jewelled black gauntlet he wears, he turned the woman to stone, whereupon he had two henchmen strike her with heavy clubs until the stone form shattered. All associated with the caravan were killed.

I name this “Sphinx” for who he really is. Leirran Grennirath, more commonly known as Steele. I know this villain of old, from dealings we shared on another occasion on which I had cause to visit Waterdeep.

He is an enemy of the city as well as a danger to all Waterdhavians. He believes himself to be on some manner of holy crusade against any and all who act in a way he believes unfitting.

He is well-protected against attempts to divine or scry out his location and plans. It seems that there are others who wish to do battle with him, first and foremost Innish Pyet, believed to be the new leader of a recently revived Force Grey.

I am certain that Leirran Grennirath is in the possession of no less than two ancient artifacts of power, which he uses extensively to both evade detection and to locate those who that seek knowledge of him or his whereabouts. How he manages to do such things in the magical anomaly that covers all of Waterdeep is beyond my knowledge.

Leirran Grennirath and his Mercykillers are a terrible threat to Waterdeep and the folk that reside within its walls.

Something must be done and I plan to play a role in it.

75px

Marpenoth 7th, 1458 DR}}
