== Prologue - The Staff Goes North ==

To set things straight in Neverwinter, and to repay their oath to the Road Mage, Rufus and Beljuril chose this path. Along with them came a band of adventurers that had recently traveled from the Dalelands. This group (though the whole group was sundered to send men with certain talents on certain missions) was comprised of Maevri, a Witch of Rashemen, Oberon, an ancient rogue who had been rescued from a 3000 year stasis in an ancient dungeon, and Oliver, an enigmatic man who fancied himself a Master of Human Nature. It was decided that secrecy was needed on both expeditions. To defend against the divining eyes of Malkor, Jafar sent Yarkul’s staff along with this party. The staff is supposed to provide protection from divination, but the Neverwinter Companions finds that they are always one step behind Malkor anyway...

== Rufus' Journal==

The first part of the tale is best told through a number of entries salvaged from the journal of Rufus of Selûne concerning the Neverwinter Company's encounter with Grimwald's Rangers in early Mirtul of 1372, recovered by chance from Neverwinter Harbour and sent by Lord Nasher to Beljuril of Azuth in Waterdeep.

=== Greengrass, 1372 - Taking Up the Harp===

The night has been long, yet the snow still falls on these quiet streets. In a month’s time, the heavy drifts will melt and flow to the sea, conquered by the spring. My Lady grant that the mysteries that my brothers and I have been initiated into this night will prove as yielding.

Perhaps, Brother, you question my design in starting this account. In doing so, I violate the solemn and secret vows of brotherhood and conspiracy that I swore not an hour ago. I confess that I do not disagree with your observation - this quill in my hand may well be composing a death warrant I cannot refute. Yet the word is the only remaining avenue that lies open to me to impose order on the chaos of my thoughts. It is my fervent wish that these words will be as moonglow in the darkening night, and reveal to me that which hides in the shadows that plague my brethren. When my task is done, I shall consign these pages to the fire, and so oblivion. Until then, may Our Lady in Silver protect them from the eyes of the Enemy. My one justification is that I write these words in the cipher taught to me by those I now serve. I address you, who read these pages, with the knowledge that you have taken up the Harp, and so I call you brother and beg your absolution.

Selûne grant that you do not bear a traitor’s knife.

=== 6 Mirtul - A Nightmare Made Flesh ===

In a matter of hours our expedition leaves for the North. Dawn soon, yet I feel no weariness. Despite this unseasonable weather, my excitement appears to be keeping me both warm and alert. The great hearths here at Roarke’s play no small part in the warmth, no doubt. We've estimated that it will take us over two rides to reach our destination. Tomorrow, when we are alone on the cold road north, I shall no doubt cherish the memory of these hours of warmth.

Raven and I are keeping watch this night, to make sure that no ill befalls us ere we begin. He is resting his eyes across the table me, but I know that he is alert from the rhythm of his breathing. Not a sound or movement escapes him, and I freely admit that my own attention wanders more than his, though my eyes stay open! I shall miss his companionship on this return to Neverwinter. Strange as it is that we, of all people, should become friends, I count none other closer than Mourn Raventree.

The two men across the room from us have not moved in hours, yet I cannot shake the feeling that they are as alert as my friend here. In fact, I would believe they could see and hear us from here were we in Waterdeep, or already well advanced in our journey. It has finally dawned on me who the strangers in grey who appeared around midnight are, and it boggles the mind of this Mistledale boy to be sitting across the room from a legend in the flesh.

I grew up hearing so many tales of Sherriff Grimwald that I half believed him to be an invention of those Daleswoman mothers who try desperately to frighten their wild children into some semblance of good behaviour. The steely eyes under that hat have peered out of the darkness of thousand nightmares, of children and men alike. Yet there he sits, eyeing Raven from across the room, as real and as cold as the night outside.

The snow is letting up, a frosty calm has descended in this hour before dawn. After the chill of the winter past, I am not eager to make a third journey to Neverwinter, and envy my comrades heading East towards my homeland. I shall not see the Dales this season, and it pains me to hear of the strife unleashed there by the Zhents. There is little I wouldn’t do to see the misty woods of my youth once more, and though I know my duty lies to the North, where Zaltim charged me with my mission, my heart looks always to Mistledale. I pray that our mission is swiftly realized, for there is yet the chance that we may rejoin our friends and aid them. I pray that Selûne will be kind to my friends, and that they too may succeed in their mission. I am comforted that Raven is among them, and have every confidence in him. As for the others, I am unsure. Boregar’s accomplishments (and his girth) speak for themselves, but I know little of our allies from the East – Sparrow, Maturin, and Hanibal (that strange little man). Their pledge to our cause is noble, and so I must have faith that Mourn’s solidity and leadership will see them through.

We are so unprepared, setting off to the North and East with so little knowledge and so many questions. It is surely a measure of the desperation of our allies that they would entrust so great a task to novices. We are more pilgrims than crusaders, I fear. If only Agamemnon were coming with us.

Ah Rufus. Enough mooning about. You and Beljuril are the ones entrusted with this task, and it is your responsibility! Agamemnon has his own duties in the city. Still, I almost envy Beljuril’s annoying sense of purpose, that youthful confidence. I pray the years are kind to him where they are cruel to the many, yet I fear the boy must stumble before he learns to watch his steps.

Our goals are threefold: to investigate and stop the slave trade in the North, to find Belduran and to eliminate the threats to the Harpers...

some text is lost to charring

... Thagdul. The man is a riddle, and one I feel we must solve before long lest we should all be lost.

I am sure that it is all connected. Light in the East. We ride now.

=== 11 Mirtul - Grell Attack ===

I have gotten to know Oliver better these past days. Like Grimwald, whom we seem to have left behind (praise be to Selûne), our company's songsmith hails from Harrowdale. We have exchanged many memories of the Dales, and the days have passed quickly.

The snows are melting, and the roads are perilous with mire, especially in these fens. Oberon broke his ankle in the swamps today, after he ran afoul of a creature that Oliver identified as a “grell”. I have tended the injury as best I can, but fear it may slow our progress yet further.

=== 15 Mirtul - Lightning in the Night ===

Strange tidings yestereve. As we camped last night, I heard a noise in the woods. When I set out to investigate, I half saw a figure spiriting off to the south. We are being followed.

The others have moved on ahead, while I am staying here, to watch for our pursuers in my “other suit”, so to speak. I had best cut this short...

Later...

It is certain beyond doubt. Three of Grimwald’s men have followed us from Roarke’s. Still, I’ll wager they are regretting it now.
I watched this morning as the three of them – Tuugan Voun, Shellwynd Thann and Derrick Swift – calmly trotted up to our campsite on some beautiful horses, then dismounted and quickly examined it. They didn’t notice me, no doubt taking my tracks for those of an animal that was hunting for some spare crumbs at the campsite.

They proceeded ahead, being careful, it seems, not to overtake our party, while I shadowed them just off the trail. One of the benefits of Selûne’s gift to me is the ability to speed through the underbrush, and I have put this blessing to good use this day.
Evening came, and my quarry set up camp at the edge of a copse of trees just off the main road, not half a mile from my friends. I continued to watch, and it seemed that the men were preparing for some kind outing, as they made no motions that would indicate an early night.

It wasn’t long however, when clouds started coming in from the west, as a cold wind moved in from the ocean. Rain tonight, it seemed. This gave me an idea.

When I was young, in the days before Selûne’s grace saved me, I would often marvel how my parents and their brethren would bend the weather to their will with Chauntea’s power. My memories of this gave me an idea, and I prayed to Selûne to aid me in a similar fashion. The clouds boiled as I watched, focussing my will on the camp of the Sherriff’s men. At length, a brilliant arc of lightning erupted from the heavens and struck the campsite, scattering the men and, regrettably, I suppose, killing two of their mounts. A shame to destroy such beautiful creatures, but I expect they’ll proceed a little more slowly now.

In their haste, a saddlebag was left behind, containing, among other items, a pair of Lantanese trade bars. I couldn’t say for sure, but I am almost positive they are part of the same series that Thagdul exchanged with us for the mithril we recovered from the Phaulkon cargo. Has some ill befallen Garth and his men? I pray not.

Some of the other items we retrieved:
*2 sets of hunting knives
*4 diamonds that Fazil has appraised at 250 gp or so each
*a blasted metal box with an ruined, but obviously intricate clasp. Inside the box were some disguises (probably Derrick Swift’s), but these have been ruined by the lightning

I have rejoined my friends. We have agreed that I will remain behind once more, though milady Maevri has offered (well, insisted) to use her illusory magics to conceal me from the sight of the rangers, should they follow us still. If such is the case, I am to push ahead and warn the rest, and we will fly for Leilon – a day’s journey to the north.

=== 18 Mirtul - Restless in the House of the Morninglord ===

Sleep, so long denied me out of necessity, appears now to avoid me out of habit. It would seem that the glut of ignorance in this sleepy town has sated Shar’s handmaiden such that the thought of another dreaming soul seems indulgent even to her. Whatever the reason, I shall try to put this hollow insomnia to use, and add to my notes.

It is night, and I sit in the House of the Morninglord. My hosts sleep soundly that they may be rested for their ceremonies come daybreak, while my friends have all embraced their pillows to clear their minds of the confusion that weariness brings to those that practice their Art. But for the pipe smoke I smell on the cool night air, I would suspect the two guardsmen stationed by Lord Filmarya at the gate to be drowsing at their post as well. After the events of the hours since our arrival (to use the term days would be to imply time broken into wakefulness and slumber), such laxity would do little to worsen my impression of the Leilonnar.

It brings me some satisfaction to note that the ore of prophecy in my last entry has been refined by experience and forged in truth. We have bested Grimwald’s men, and one has been slain.

... the rest of the pages in the journal are charred beyond legibility ...

== 16-18 Mirtul - A Long Night in Leilon ==
right|650px
Rufus' remarks on the companions' brief sojourn in Leilon are perhaps too kind. The Neverwinter Companions had run their horses hard to get to this town, which they reached in the evening of 16 Mirtul. They hoped to make distance on the pursuing Rangers, that they might reach Neverwinter unmolested, or, at the very least, that they would have some time to prepare their defenses before the Rangers caught them. The group discussed strategy at a pub called The Orc's Tusks, but Fazil soon noticed something odd in the behaviour of the locals. The idea that they are being watched put the companions on edge.

Rightly so, it turned out. The night that the Neverwinter Companions were to spend in Leilon would prove to be the longest of their lives.

They bedded down that night at the Sword of Leilon - the same inn where Rufus and Raven had stopped at during their search for Hob the winter before. During the night, the room where Beljuril and May were sleeping was seemingly attacked by orcs, but this turned out to be a magical illusion of some kind. The sniper-shots (obviously from Shellwynd) that came in through the windows, however, were all too real, and May was seriously wounded by one of these missiles. The Rangers seemed to target these two specifically - the spells they cast to defend themselves were soon exhausted, and the disruption ensured that they found no rest with which to regain their strength.

Dawn did not come the next day - the sky stayed dark with ominous, threatening clouds. Seeking a safe haven in which to find rest and recover from their injuries, the companions sought help from the authorities - and were put in jail 'for their own good'. Unfortunatley, the Leilonnar proved unable to offer any such guarantee.

As the storm-darkened day progressed, orcs mounted an uncharacteristically organized raid outside the city, and Leilon became a chaotic mess. The guards distracted, the jail itself was attacked, and the companions were very nearly incinerated in their cell. They managed to escape that deathtrap, but when they sought refuge in the holy precincts of a temple to Lathander, the Rangers finally cornered them, and a desperate struggle ensued. Perhaps the Dawnlord's grace was not entirely absent that day, for the battle soon turned in the companions' favour, and when Tuugan Voun met his doom in the venomous bite of May’s snake-familiar, the remaining two Rangers made good their escape.

Following this encounter, however, the Neverwinter Companions shared harsh words with Pelinder Filmarya, the Lord of Leilon. Filmarya had confiscated \"the Voun criminal's\" enchanted sword, and appeared to see the heroes and Rangers as much of the same ilk. On the morning of 18 Mirtul, after a welcome night of rest in the Lathanderite temple, a pair of notes was delivered to the heroes, along with the Voun blade. The first was from the Lord of Leilon, and the second from Atemnon, the villain who must have been responsible for the illusions of the night before. Branding them as trouble makers, Lord Filmarya told the companions that they were to leave Leilon immediately, and that they were not welcome to return, on pain of imprisonment.

While these notes are tremendously infuriating to the heroes, they could do naught but suffer the ignominy, as a more important goal lay ahead. Some suspected that Filmarya's thoughts towards the heroes must have been magically poisoned by Atemnon. Nevertheless, May and Oberon, in particular, swore that Leilon hadn't seen the last of them.

== 21-24 Mirtul - A Darkened Sky ==

On the High Road once again, The companions pass several days without incident before catching up to a Red Shields caravan. The caravan master allows them to join in exchange for protection against the perils of the road.

The caravan travels for several days towards Neverwinter without incident, but just as the caravan is nearing its goal, progress is effectively blocked by an enormous throng of darkenbeasts which rises up in the skies above a plain between Neverwinter and the bluff on which the caravan is travelling. The NC and the caravaners all took pause, and the caravan master refused to risk his men in an attack on the creatures. In equal parts disgusted by the cowardice of the carvanners, and enraged by the effrontery of the spawn of Shar, his nemesis, Rufus invoked his moonblade and led a charge into the throng. After a drawn out battle with the unflinching creatures, the caravan and the NC were victorious.
