...from the Book of Creed...
----

\"And what of the Union, Elphias?\"

A moment of ponderous silence. And then he replied, absent of interest.
 
\"...indeed, what of it?\"

Hebron grimaced, his fat face reddening in the process.

\"You undermine the ground beneath their feet, Elphias. Possessing their contracts, if you put this deal through... you will ruin them. What of their livelihood? Their families?\"

The grey-skinned man known as Elphias did not reply, not immediately. He feigned interest in the cup he held, momentarily gazing at some insignificant detail before tipping it back and draining the contents into his mouth. The Shadovar placed it aside and returned his attention to the man before him, lacing his fingers in front of his smiling face. Almond-shaped eyes gazed over the crest of his jewel-studded hands -- the smug apathy projected from those eyes was almost palpable, filling the very air of the finely-dressed office they sat in.

\"Hebron, please. The Ironworkers' Union of Sembia is a poorly run organization of ascended rabble. Lackwits blessed with marginal success.\"

The plump man across from him gestured widely, sweaty fingers twisting the air. \"The Union has suffered greatly for years! You know this. They have prospered by sweat and blood despite the system, and you would ruin them! And for what? A whim's sake?\"

Elphias laughed, short and high -- a bird's squawk.

\"Whim? Lady, no. Neither is it for the sake of business. I do this on principal. They want to play, they play by the rules. Our rules.\"

\"Do their results not speak for them?\"

\"Pah. They game the system. They play the underdog card, the downtrodden. They grew fat on luck and back patting, support for the litte man. They have no talent, no business acumen, no savvy thinking. The Union coasted on 'good-old Sembian labour', seeking to pluck heartstrings and garner sympathy.\"

\"There are many ways to success, Elphias. Why the disdain?\"

\"Because they cannot sustain that success. They are hypocrites, and I cannot abide a hypocrite. Their plans for conglomeration were released nearly a tenday ago.\"

Hebron scoffed. \"I have heard no such thing.\"

\"Your sympathy blinds you, Hebron. Or perhaps it is more than that? Closer to nationalism, maybe?\"

\"The Lord of Saerloon will not abide this. You play with the entire nation's economy -- there will be repercussions.\"

Elphias waved a hand dismissively.

\"His daughter is far in my debt. His... disinterest in the situation is guaranteed.\"

\"You play a dangerous game, El-\"

\"Please.\" Elphias interrupted sharply. He placed his hands on his desk and rose halfway, leering at his guest like a hawk eyeballing an especially fat rabbit. \"You Sembians do nothing but play games. Your entire system is build around it. The only thing you find dangerous about all of this is the hue of my skin. After all these years, you people still chafe under Netheril's gaze, but are more than happy to wallow in the golden chains we've shackled you with. Spare me your misgivings, you ignorant load, before I replace you with someone competent.\"

The Sembian opened his mouth to reply, but Elphias was already on his feet, finger pointed at the door. Huffing and puffing with equal parts fear and anger, Hebron gathered his parchment and cloak before shuffling towards it. Pausing at the threshold, he spoke.

\"You'll have the documents on the 'morrow. Good evening.\"

And then he was gone, the door closing behind him with an ear-splitting crack. There was silence in the room as Elphias lounged in his chair. He casually refilled his cup from the decanter on his desk. The liquid was bright like thinned honey, the bitter scent sending a chill up his spine. He went to sip, but was interrupted by a small voice.

\"Father, what is a hypocrite?\"

Elphias paused, a sardonic grin splitting his face. He drained the cup and looked at his son. The boy had been sitting in the alcove against the wall, obscured by low light and soft curtains. It was his favourite place to be -- the boy often passed the time by reading and listening to his father work. Just as Elphias had done in his youth. The man turned to his son and spoke.

\"A man stands for the people, spouts rhetoric on the evils of big business, stand close to the earth and works to right the wrongs suffered by the working class. This makes him popular, and reputation leads to profit, and profit leads to pride. But the man grows greedy, the man cuts corners, the man becomes what he hated, and turns his back on what he once was, and yet he still coasts on his reputation as a lover of the working man. This man is a liar. A hypocrite.\"

\"And that's the Union?\"

\"Indeed, my boy.\"

\"So you're ruining them out of... principle?\"

\"Correct again. They are rabble of the worst sort, and therefore do not deserve to be among us. One bad ingredient ruins the pot, after all.\"

The small lad nodded his head, tiny fingers scrunched over the edges of the leather-bound book he held. \"I think I understand, father. I think hate hypocrites too.\"

\"Very good, my boy.\" Elphias smiled. His son resumed his reading. It was at that moment, in act of reaching for the decanter once more, he became aware of a man in the room. The door was closed, but he had not heard its movement. Maintaining his composure, expression even, he poured more of the pale liquid into his cup and rose to his feet.

\"May I help you?\" Elphias asked in a smooth voice. \"I do not recall scheduling an appointment...\"

The man was coarse, unshaven, and dressed in a piecemeal garment of cloth and steel. He was smiling politely.

\"I'm the collector.\"

\"... say again?\" Elphias was at something of a loss for words.

But the man had turned his back to him, and was now fetching a small object from his pocket as he made his way towards the door. A nail, plain and unadorned, grasped between two of his gloved fingers. Gingerly, the man pressed the nail into the surface of the door, as though the hardwood were made of soil. The nail vanished beneath the man's thumb, leaving the door's finish entirely unscathed.

\"What...? What are you doing?\"

The man made his way back across the room and halted before Elphias's desk. \"Maintaining privacy. As I said, I'm the collector.\"

Elphias spread his hands, making sure not to spill his drink. \"I'm afraid I have no idea what you mean. My debts are covered, not a single one outstanding. Who sent you?\"

The man's smile broadened. \"Not that sort of collector.\"

He drew a knife. Something dry and brown covered most of its gleaming surface. Elphias caught his own gaze in the blade's keen edge. Reacting fast, Elphias twisted the ring on his finger. Masses of shadow erupted from the floor, tendrils spilling out from the carpeting, plunging the entire room into darkness as they manifested. The man disappeared into the churning blackness. Elphias smiled. Banging on the door. His men stationed outside had heard the ruckus. Idiots, why they had even let this man past them, he had no idea. Once he had finished squeezing an explaination out of this stranger, those louts would be next.

The Shadovar's smile quickly vanished.

Strobes of light erupted from the door with every blow, sending flashes of illumination throughout the room in frenzied bursts. As if in slow motion, Elphias saw the man lurch forward out of the gloom, still gripping that blood-caked blade. He cast aside the chair, upended the desk, and lept forward, catching Elphias by the collar of his cloak. He felt the prick of the blade under his eyelid, a drop of liquid roll down his cheek.

The crescendo of noise coming from the door had grown louder and more frantic. 

\"Master Elphias!\"

\"Open the door!\"

\"Get a prybar!\"

The light was disorienting, but Elphias couldn't shut his eyes. The dagger's tip dug deeper into his flesh.

\"What do you want?\" He spat through gritted teeth. 

The man was still smiling. He didn't reply. 

\"I'll... I'll pay you. Whatever they're offering, I will triple it. Whatever you want.\"

\"I'm not here for your money.\" His eyes darted towards Elphias's ring hand, wrapped weakly around the man's wrist. The finger twitched.

\"Oh.\" He chuckled briefly, the blade's tip quickly goading him back into silence. He knew this man. The killer had been known across Sembia for some time now. \"You're the one. The insurgent. Or do you prefer freedom fighter? Revolutionary, perhaps? Please. How many Shadovar have you murdered so far? A score of us? Whose bodies were found, at any rate. You honestly think that killing merchants and minor officials will topple Netheril? Hah! You're fighting a war no one... no one even fucking cares about. Just walk away. Just... just run. I will spare you as long as you leave.\"

It was the man's turn. He barked a laugh through gritted teeth. It was cold and humourless. Almost a sob. He was still grinning though, from ear-to-ear, chilling Elphias to the bone.

\"You've mistaken me for a patriot.\"

Elphias didn't even feel the blade punch through his eye socket. It entered his brain, split his skull with a vicious twist and slid back out in one fluid motion. The man released his collar and dropped him to the floor in a clumsy heap. He was dead before he hit the ground. The man's attention swiftly turned to the Shadovar's bloody eye that had popped out of his head after his dagger's thrust. It bounced and rolled across the smooth floor, the black trail of liquid it left barely illuminated by the flashing light projecting from the battered door -- it was nothing but splinters now, held suspended by the nail that protruded halfway from its shining surface. Any moment now the seal would shatter. The pounding grew louder.

The man was unaware of this, however. The eye had rolled to a stop, nestling itself between the small feet of a young Netherese child. He stood before a curtained alcove, unmoving, expression fixed. The man had never seen so grim-faced a child. Shocked tears rolled down his face. A pool of fluid soaked his legs and the floor around him.

\"... f-father?\"

For the first time that night, Vanion's smile faltered, twitching at the edges. It gradually faded, his mouth becoming a near-invisible line creasing his face.

The boy spoke again. His voice was broken. \"Why... why did... why?\"

\"...\"

\"Your people killed my people.\" Vanion replied shortly. He bent over Elphias's body, severed the man's finger with a swift chop, and placed it in his pocket.

\"My... my father never killed...\" 

\"If you're certain.\"

\"No... he... didn't kill. Killing is wrong!\" The boys words became a scream.

\"You're absolutely right.\" Vanion said. He stood up and moved towards the window hanging behind the desk.

\"Then... then why did you... why did you kill my father?!\"

Vanion opened the window and leaned out, taking in a fresh breath, gazing out across the rooftops. It was late. He glanced one last time at the broken child.

\"Because... I'm a bastard.\" 

Vanion sighed as he clambered out the window. It was time to leave Sembia.

The boy screamed again. \"I hate you!\"

Vanion paused for a moment, then vanished into the dark.

\"... me too.\"
