== Alturiak, 1373 - Waterdeep ==

Winter is always cruel in Waterdeep, and for the most part, the City goes into a sort of slumber, relative to the amount of activity it sees in other seasons of the year. This general rule used to apply to the underworld of the City of Splendours, but this winter was different.

Starting in Kythorn of the previous summer, the City changed drastically, and for the worse. For one reason or another, criminal organizations began to crop up everywhere. Gangs formed to inflict extortion on business and merchants. Thievery hit such a peak that the Shadow Thieves of old are not known to have inflicted so much fear and loss in their hay-day. People started to vanish from the streets, and some turned up dead. It seemed like the City was being overrun completely by the gangs. Bands of wererats and other monsters wandered the streets.

Battles on the streets of the City between these gangs, the Watch, and bystanders became frequent. As gangs expanded to take over new ventures and new territory, they locked horns and the results were often quite devastating.

== The Past Year  ==

With all these things happening, Garth thought it would be a great time to start his networks. However, the opposite proved true. With all the violence and suspicion, and disputes over territory, he discovered that his Jack Dashers were almost always injured, and many of the Rooken Network vanished in the line of duty. With the help of many of the friends he had made in the past, he was able to keep his operation afloat, but the year was not profitable. Not in a monetary sense at any rate. The Rooken network did build a tremendous Street Encyclopedia for Waterdeep, but at great cost.

Among the many things that they did turn up, one particular find was most noteworthy. They tracked down a man named Jacob Fink, who was operating a catalogue business for ‘adventuring and specialty tools’. When a meeting was arranged between Munk Applet and this trader, the two men had a very awkward moment of realization. Jacob, in fact, was Nero, an old associate of Garth’s. Garth was quite interested to know what had happened to him down in Undermountain.

== Nero's Tale ==

Nero's tale was neither long nor pretty. He stated simply that Quevin and Quellar came into the dungeon, and gave the spelunkers a sound beating. When things did seem like they were going to go their way, Steele turned on his companions! He lashed out at the Huntmaster, who managed to get away. The drow hunter, Lotharil, was down bleeding but not dead as well. At that point, Nero ran. He did hear Quevin say to Steele “you made the right choice”. Many days later he emerged from Undermountain after a series of horrifying experiences, and he retired from adventuring.

He began a life as a catalogue merchant with no discernable place of business besides this restaurant or that. Business has been excellent, he stated, but you have to be more careful than ever. Many of the ‘old rules’ don’t apply any more, with the criminal climate being what it is. He also confided in Garth that he had learned that Force Grey had been either disbanded or destroyed, and that this was one of the major reasons for increase in crime in the City. Further, the coffers in the City were not what they used to be, and many members of the Guard were not getting their pay, which lead to corruption in the few men who did stay on as members of the Guard. Things were really bad, but Nero was profiting from it, and keeping himself neutral in the affairs of the underworld of the City.

== An Old Friend ==

An important footnote to the delving of the Garth and his network is that he established a very good rapport with Loremaster Kennyth Thames at the Font of Knowledge. Kennyth ‘can see through a brick wall’ it is said, and the portly Oghman did what he could to help Garth in his endeavours, knowing what side he played for. On top of a wealth of information, he also provided him with a tome of great power. This magical book, a Manual of Quickness of Action, proved to hone Garth’s dexterity, making him more survivable in his increasingly dangerous job.
