Thistle Ridge Expeditionary Record – Phoebe Birchgrove, Sgt. III, 7th
Co. 4th Plt, Bright Spears, Aid de Camp for Lt. I Forge Farmountain


12 Tarsakh, 1483 DR
The Host
I think a lot of people believe that the Thistle Ridge Expedition started a month ago, when
heroes starting collecting to compete in the contest. But for most of us that are doing the
work of soldiering and building, it really started today, encamped at the base of the
escarpment, in the safety of Gribbons’ Farm with two of our sister platoons nearby.
Assembled were the following;

   •   Chrysalis, with it’s ﬁve members, a wagon and pony, a riding dog for Mrs.
       Thickwickle and a ﬁne Lantern Hound
   •   7th Company 4th Platoon Bright Spears, with the following;
           o Command
                   Lt. I Forge Farmountain
                   Magistrate Madigara Dale
                   Cook and Quartermaster Sgt. I Ivy Thickwickle
                   Aid de Camp Sgt. III Phoebe Birchgrove
           o First Squad – Mounted
                   Sgt. II Chastity Dale (a Selunite from Shadowdale)
                   5 Spearmen
           o Second Squad – Mounted
                   Sgt. II Buck Harrowbridge (a Selunte from Mistledale)
                   5 Spearmen
                   2 Deepingdale Mastiffs (Bull and Newt)
           o Third Squad – Foresters
                   Sgt. I Illya Elderbough (a Chauntean from Gribbons’, Ranger 1st Class)
                   3 Foresters (Women)
                   2 Spearmen (of note, Pvt III Dun’lodan Millstone, ﬁrst of Tethyamar’s
                     folk in the Sunblades)
           o Fourth Squad – Reserve
                   Sgt. III Kelya Cordoza (a Vaasan, Ranger 2nd Class)
                   3 Spearmen
                   2 Foresters (Violet & Daffodil Newharvest of Daggerford)
                  The Newharvest Hounds, Manny & Chuck (Lowstead Wolfhounds)
          o Train
                  5 heavy wagons with 2 Cormyeran Chargers each
                  2 reserve Comyrearn Chargers
   •   Free Defense League 14th Company 1st Platoon Dawnshields
          o Command
                  “Ser” Reginald Boxfray (Cpt., Paladin of Tempus from Battledale,
                    capable and devout, but Unordered and Unlanded)
          o Black Squad
                  Sgt. + 4 men, all on foot, spears, swords and shields
          o Blue Squad
                  Sgt. + 4 men, all on foot, spears, swords and shields
          o Green Squad
                  Sgt. +4 men, all on foot, war axes
          o Red Squad
                  Sgt. +4 men, all on foot, heavy crossbows
          o No Train (all men carry their supplies on their backs)
   •   Ridge and River Reclamation Company (owned by Chryaslis as far as I can tell)
          o Chief Engineer Gamling ‘Swelter’ Hammerfall (a dwarven engineer, late of the
              FDL)
                  Billy Mason (Journeyman Mason from Charity)
                  John Carpenter (Journeyman Carpenter and Joiner from Charity)
                  Haimish Chiorlindyl (Journeyman Sawyer from Dwimmerholme Farm)
                  Bregendy Chiorlindyl (Apprentice Sawyer from Dwimmerholme Farm)
          o Train
                  Medium wagon with 2 ponies (Swelter’s shop)
                  Medium wagon with 1 draft horse (containing mason and carpenter
                    supplies)
                  Large wagon with 2 draft horses (containing a small sawmill)

That is the complete list of the 59 people, 27 horses, 3 ponies, 5 dogs and 9 wagons that set
out on this ﬁne spring morning to start the work of reclaiming Thistle Ridge. I am also
traveling with my bonded culver, Mareeseah (she is a Swift rather than a dove), and
Chrysalis travels with 2 cages and doves.

The ﬁrst objective of the campaign is Greenwood Farm, where I am now writing by
lamplight in the command tent. So far so good! This is an abandoned farm with a good
stone structure remaining, and ﬁne soil to start a new settlement. Captain Monarch chose
this as the ﬁrst objective to ensure a continuity of supply between Gribbons’ (and by
extension Dagger Falls), and defensible redoubt for the next objectives. Everyone in the
command group agreed without reservation with the decision.

First Breakfast
We often make jest of the small folk, over their appetites and extra meals, and I’ve heard
many of my human friends talk about ‘ﬁrst breakfast’, ‘second breakfast’ and others,
making light of our smaller kin. But what most don’t realize is that Frist Breakfast is an
important celebration to the small folk, and is a traditional meal prepared and shared at the
outset of a great task, journey or campaign. To be fair, in many halﬂing communities the
threshold for what constitutes a great task or journey can be small, and they do celebrate
First Breakfast with all the changing seasons, new moons, and rites of passage for any
member of their community. But this morning we are on the edge of great campaign, with
our host and many others assembled to wish us off. I heard the Lt. comment that “it is
more like ‘last breakfast’, isn’t it, before we begin our campaign and tighten our belts”, to
which Sgt. Thickwickle responded “dear, that is at the very least a pessimistic outlook on
these trays of bacon, and at worst an indictment of my ability in the ﬁeld. No, this is the ﬁrst
of many great breakfasts we’ll share, if not in the ﬁeld, then when we return! By Yondolla’s
Ladle, my good Lt., please get a plate! You’re the last one with empty hands!”

Assembled with us this morning were many good allies and friends. Most of the eoldermen
of Gribbons were in attendance with their families, as well as all of the 1st platoon of Sun
Blades and some of the 2nd that were off-duty this morning. Mayor Winters was here as well
as Magistrate Saddler. There were also two dozen halﬂings, which represent I later learned
the entirety of that population from Gribbons, and they were the ﬁrst ones stirring in the
morning. Before even the Magistrates were looking for the ﬁrst grey signs of sunrise, the
small folk (including our own Cook and her mother, and the Newharvest girls from our 4th
squad) were stoking ﬁres, setting pots and kettles and the large picnic tables that had been
brought for this purpose.

Us large folk that know First Breakfast to be a celebration for the small folk and a veneration
to Yondalla have often asked if there will be a prayer given, and are always told some
version of “our prayers are delivered by the warm food you take in, the more the better, and
answered by the good deeds fueled by it later”. But what most haven’t seen, is that their
faithful (which seems to be every halﬂing) gather around as the ﬁrst ﬁre is struck, and join
hands in a solemn prayer together. They commune in that cold dark hour, before preparing
a feast for the rest of us, an neither entreat us to abandon our warm beds or even offer
thanks once we’ve had our ﬁll. This is a selﬂess gift from their people to ours.

The breakfast itself was a merry affair, with music, some dance and much laughter. The
food was of the greatest quality I could imagine; large platters stacked high with rashers of
bacon, some fried, some smoked, some candied. For those with a taste for ﬁsh, there were
platters of smoked bass and grilled trout, caught fresh from the Tesh yesterday, their skin
crisp from the ﬁre, seasoned with thyme and parsley. At either end of each table, towering
baskets overﬂowed with hearth-baked bread, still warm from the oven, with trays of butter,
honey and creamy honey-butter. To accompany the bread, there were delicate ﬂaky
pastries, ﬁlled with stewed apples and pears, sweetened with honey and syrup. Trays of
cheese brimmed with wedges of sharp cheddar and creamy brie, as well as fresh curds and
thick cream which many spread over their bread or cheese. Of last year’s preserves, there
were jars at every table of pears, blue berries, raspberries, strawberries, and mixtures of
the lot, some sweetened with syrup, and these thick and sticky jams found their way onto
endless stacks of buttered toast. There were large bowls of eggs and porridge, and milk,
mead and wines ﬁlling in the last open space of every table. We shall not eat this well again
for who-knows-how-long, and so our host did the honour of ‘praying’ at First Breakfast by
doing their best to clear the plates and tables of the ﬁne meal spread out before us. We
were unsuccessful.

Saddler gave two services in the morning, the ﬁrst at Prime with his ﬂock (which is roughly
10 of our number, a handful of FDL soldiers, and a dozen folks from Gribbons) before
breakfast, and the second as our host was assembled to depart up the ridge. The latter
was a moving benediction accompanied by the junior magistrates (including our own)
walking among the ranks with censers. Saddler is more pastoral and less militant in his
approach, which despite my occupation, I ﬁnd endearing. His closing prayer, delivered as
the sun suddenly crested and ﬁlled the valley with it’s golden warmth (do they teach timing
at the Seminary?) was full of optimism and kind words for our leadership, as well as the
Captain herself.

       “Morninglord, as we see you greet these brave heroes and bath them in your warmth
       at this, the very moment of their departure, we see that your light shines on man,
       dwarf, halﬂing and elf alike. We see that we are all equals in your light, and that the
       leadership and character of the ancient folk is as valued as that of your greatest
       mortal servants. We are thankful for your light that limns her as the Captain of this
       great venture, and your signal that hers is the authority to command all; men,
       dwarves and halﬂings in our common and noble cause.”

With this, Captain Monarch offered a hand on her left shoulder, just above the heart, her
kind’s gesture of sincere gratitude, and we were off.

The Journey
It is only about 5 miles from the top of the escarpment to Greenwood Farm, but with our
heavy train, it took us more than 2 hours just to get everyone to the top of the switchback
road that has been maintained for this purpose. Seeing the slow pace of advance,
Chrysalis set off ahead of us to recon the path and the farm itself, accompanied by Lt.
Riverstone (1st Company) and 4 of her Foresters. I heard that their journey was uneventful,
but that they found something troubling at the farm. What this is we haven’t yet been told,
but Lt. Farmountain assures me that it is nothing we aren’t prepared for.

Of the main body of the host, with our many wagons, horses and ponies, we travelled
slowly through the fair wood of Cormanthor. We took courage from our numbers, and our
Foresters were in orbit around the progress of the train, and by the end of the journey they
came back with no bad news, but with a pair large deer that have been the main portion of
my dinner tonight, having been made into a wonderful stew that fed the entire camp.

I don’t know why so many fear Cormanthor. Some say it is a troubling place that doesn’t
want our kind, and others say it is actively trying to push men out. But I see as ﬁne a forest
as one might read about in Cormyrean children’s tales, with an endless supply of the best
wood we could pray for. Indeed, there will one day I don’t doubt, be much money to be
made sending wood down the river. But I’m losing my focus.

I enjoyed the trip through Cormanthor, even with the regularity of wagons getting stuck, and
the difficulty of ﬁnding a private place to do private things in so open a forest (the great
stories of heroes and deeds never tell you that half of your challenges on campaign are
around your bowels). It is easy-going on foot or horseback, the air is clear and ﬁne, and
sometimes feels more like drinking than breathing. The myriad scents of the forest are
sometimes nearly intoxicating, and the mirthful music of birds (of which there are more
beautiful species than I can name) is unchecked by our clumsy passage. Indeed, I think
they sang us welcome. And this is how we came to Greenwood Farm, our train arriving
several bells before sundown.

Greenwood Farm
It is easy to see why this location was settled some decades ago. The building that
remains, and those moldering nearby, sit atop a small hill, with a very gentle slop that
divides the area north and south, with the village in the middle. At the base of the north
side of the slope is a very large, clear pond. The Engineer says that it is special as it is both
spring fed and stream fed. I’m doing my best to understand his trade and to learn as much
of his work as possible, so I can faithfully represent what he says and does in this report,
but I have to confess that I could not make out with my untrained eyes what he saw in the
ripples of that ﬁne, cool pond. But the rest of his assessment of the area I did understand.
He found the old well partway up the hill, as our men began clearing the thick brush that
hides this area (for in this part of the forest, the trees are mostly close-knit pines, ﬁrs and
balsams, hugging the pond and choking the small hill and the old village), and he explained
that it too is spring-fed, and indeed he produced perfectly clear water from it presently.

He then showed me to the other side of the hill. Again, as the men cleared and burned the
brush about the place, more old building foundations were discovered, including the
latrines and barns. Master Swelter explained that the “water table is divided by that hill and
the limestone beneath it; the south drains far to the west-south-west in the Sukiskyn River,
while the north drains directly by small
streams and falls into the Tesh, south east”.
As I mentioned earlier, this business is half
looking after where you do your business,
and Greenwood Farm was likely settled
based on the original settler’s conﬁdence in
their comforts and quality of the water.

As I write this tonight, the men and women
have been very busy, and the greatest
bonﬁre I’ve ever seen is currently blazing,
and Ser Reginald is ‘singing’ (it’s more like
roaring, but the men love his songs) loud
enough to wake the dead, and I think a ﬂask
or two of spirits may have been passed
around, though not in front of the officers.
The energy and spirit of our breakfast has
held throughout the day, and continues to
bolster our collective mood, now well past
midnight. We are happy to be on campaign,
and are eager to face tomorrow.



A Curious Clipping
Before we set out, knowing that we were going to be marching ﬁrst to Greenwood Farm and
thence to Thistle Ridge Tower, I thought to use some of my time in the Aethenaeum to ﬁnd
out anything I could about either place. Of Greenwood Farm I found nothing important or
even interesting. It had only been occupied for less than 20 years before being abandoned
to the dangers of the Wood. However, I did ﬁnd a curious clipping of an interview with a
bard or skald named Olimbaer Olivambaer. This itinerant fellow had come from
somewhere east of the dale in 1435, and had visited Thistle Ridge Tower. He gives his
account of the visit to Dalak Quickaxe, for some reason, who had the sense to write it all
down. The clipping was in a sheaf of papers in a box in the Aethenaeum that was labelled
“Sundry Discussions, 1430’s”, and I was lucky to ﬁnd it. I made a copy of this, and gave it to
Captain Monarch when we made camp at Greenwood Farm tonight. I have reproduced the
words of Olimbaer below, as Dalak recorded them.

       I love to march through the Dales this time of year, you see. The autumn is the very
       ﬁnest season from Archendale to Daggerdale. It doesn’t get better than cool
       weather, coloured leaves and fresh harvests for a man who walks from place to
       place. I decided to look up an old friend, and stopped at Thistle Ridge Tower. “Ahoy
       up there” calls I to a pair of soldiers standing on a serviceable balcony high above.
       “Is that old scoundrel Ribalest home?” I shouts to them. None there by that name
       they tells me, which causes me to do some accounting in my head. I’m probably a
       bit late, which has been a problem for me these last couple of years, haha.

       “OK, well, tell him, if you see him, that old Olimbaer was looking for him. I’ll be at
       the Riven Oak up by the falls for a few nights. He can ﬁnd me there if he shows up.”
       The men up top looked confused, so I made off. They always have wonderful butter
       at the Riven Oak, and I was surprised to not ﬁnd it, but here we are.

       Anyway, not far down the trail, I gets caught up by a few men on horseback, who’d
       come down from the Tower to meet me. The officer with them was named Claudius
       and he asked me what I knew of Ribalest. “An old friend” says I. “Old indeed”, says
       the young officer “But I’m afraid your friend is likely unavailable. He might be
       needing your help, though”.

       Intrigued, I followed the men back to the Tower. They had added quite a bit to it.
       Sembians, they told me, who had migrated here. The Tower was still there, just as I
       remember it, but these men had built a small terraced fortress about the thing,
       carving away some of the cliff and using the bits to shore up a stout little outpost. I
       guess about 10 men lived here, watching the road for some enemy I had no sense of.

       The Tower was in much better shape than old Ribalest had left it. The top level,
       which is the only one sticking out of the ground, was clean and full of nice things. A
       ﬁne bottle of wine that they had made themselves was served to see to my thirst. It
       was sweet and curiously similar to the wines of their homeland. I’m surprised they
       could grow the grapes needed for this quality of wine this far north. Anyway, once I’d
       drunk my ﬁll, I asks “Where’s Old Ribalest, or leastways, where is the evidence he
       needs help?”

       And the young officer leads me to the lower level, then the lower lower level, which
       is where old Ribalest did most of his work. He preferred dark cold spaces, where he
       said he had the fewest distractions. The men now living in his Tower had put the
       lower levels to their own uses. There were boxes and crates and weapons and
       things in every room, though they did show me to the old sorcerer’s workshop and
       library. They had left that more or less as they had found it, or so they told me. “My
       dad came here 20 years ago” the young officer explained to me “and there was no
       sign of civilized occupation. There were some monsters living here that needed to
       be cleaned out, and ever since we’ve held this tower and fortiﬁed it.”

       “So why” says I “do you think my old friend needs help?” and with this, the young
       officer gets right to it, and brings me to the lowest level. Right to the Last Door, as he
       used to call it. To get right to the end of the story, the young officer pointed out a
       piece of cloth sticking out of the Last Door. He had suspicions about that cloth
       which I conﬁrmed. “That’s my friend’s cloak, and he got stuck behind his own
       damned contraption. That’s a shame.”

       “How in the Nine Hells do you open this door?” Claudius asked me. “We’ve tried
       everything, but no one can ﬁgure it out. Our masons say the stone can’t be cut, so
       whatever is on the other side of that door…we can’t get at it…”

       “Well, it’s just a tomb now” replies I. “That’s a shame.”

       I had to wonder if these were really Sembians, because they should have been
       much better at solving the Last Door. What they didn’t count on was that my old
       friend, sorcerer though he be, and a recluse and a dozen other odd and
       contemptible things, was a devout follower of Tyr. And the trick to the door is to
       eliminate imbalance. I don’t suppose they’ll ﬁgure that out before their time in that
       Tower is concluded, like my friend’s.

And there the clipping ends abruptly. I did take the chance to ask old Dalak about the
conversation, but he was sleepy and forgetful, and said he never met a skald named
Olimbaer. I have provided the Captain with this information, which I hope is more help than
nuisance.