==Excerpt from the narrative, \"The Journey to Base Camp Silver\"==
right|300px|thumb|Map (in progress) of Thorbardson's Hall
 
This is a finished hall over 100 yards long, about 50 wide, and perhaps 20 high at its apex. Four enormous 20’ diameter pillars support the central part of the hall, while a dozen smaller pillars radiate out from them. The hall is rather divided into three large interior spaces by the pillars, and is demarcated by the different heights of the ceiling above; a central area runs the length of the hall, and is flanked by all of the pillars of the room; in this area, the ceiling arches up from the lines of pillars to about 20 yards in height. Running parallel to this area are two narrower and lower areas with an arched ceiling only half as high. Along the outer walls of the narrow areas are many doors, windows and balconies from which dozens of lights are seen. 

The floor is flat and true from wall-to-wall, and has been purposefully carved into 4’x4’ sections. At the corner of each section is a small hole. Today, the purpose of these holes can be easily seen; there are scores of tents in the hall, the posts of which are stuck into the purpose-made holes in the floor.
   
The hall is nearly choked with tents today. Before you, in the proximal third of the hall, there are many disparate tents stuck into the ground, some seemingly jury-rigged to fit. These are the tents of some of the craftsmen and merchants who have come to the base-camp to ply their trades. 

In the middle third of the great hall, divided north and south, are two smart-looking camps; one of bright red tents including a massive pavilion, and the other mustard-yellow. The red camp on the north side of the hall is that of Tasster Gellinson, while the yellow opposite it is that of his brother, Tezster. 

Finally, in the distant third of the hall are the grey and white tents of the Council of Silver. This camp is the largest of the lot, with hundreds of dwarves billeted therein. Several large pavilion tents hold what amounts to royal accommodations. 

Along the north and south walls are the doors, windows and balconies of the network of rooms that have been carved back from the main hall. There are actually families and businesses setting up in these rooms, and you notice several small dwarven children actually race out of one door and back into another at one point, hotly pursued by a red-faced dwarf-woman waiving a wooden spoon menacingly over her head. 

The noise of the hall is nearly deafening; the sounds of hammer strokes on metal and stone is nearly constant, and the voices of hundreds of men and dwarves, many of them on leave at the beer tents, is loud but cheerful. The noise from men and dwarves practicing with weapons at Tasster’s camp is also considerable. The bustling encampment here, you quickly learn, is commonly called ‘Base Camp Silver’. 

==Base Camp Silver==
right|300px

Presently, the Hall is being used as the base of operations for the forray into Tethyamar.  This is provisionally under the rule of the Council of Silver.  The Council holds 1/3 of the hall, in which it has pitched dozens of tents and pavillions.  This is called 'Silver Camp'.

There is also a camp for Tasster Gellinson; this occupies 1/6 of the hall, in the middle-northern section.  This camp is responsible for defending the passageway to the Northern Burroughs and for raids therein.  The tents in this camp are bright red.  This is called 'Red Camp'.

To the south of Tasster's camp is the camp of his brother, Tezster Gellinson.  This mustard-coloured camp takes up the 1/6 south-central portion of the hall, and guards the door and makes raids into the Southern Burroughs.  Often called 'Yellow Camp'.

The eastern 1/3 of the cavern is called 'Gold Camp' by most, not for any unified colour scheme, but for the large quantities of coin that trade hands daily here.  It is a rag-tag collection of individuals who have set up their businesses or trade, as well as some mercenaries and adventuring groups.  The Redjacks have a few large tents in this area.  For details of the commerce here, check out this link.

==Thorbardson 'Burrough'==
There are presently dozens of families of dwarves that have moved into the Hall, believing that their ancestral home is secure.  These families live in the chambres that are cut into the north and south walls of the Hall.  There are many doors, windows and balconies (on a second level) to these chambres, and there are now several craftsmen and businesses set up here (see the link to Gold Camp for details of this commerce).

The rooms of Thorbardson Burrough are for Tethyamar settlers only; these are mostly families and a few assorted elders.  The lights from these many rooms create a very distinctive and conspicuous facade for these two walls, which can be seen from one end of the great hall to the other.
