=Report=
:20th of Mirtul, 1480 DR
:Report on Dark Garden Investigation
:Sergeant Iolus Warburton, White Cloaks

To Captain Lumina Whitegate:

We have found answers to some of the questions tasked to us, but unfortunately, those answers seem to have created more questions.

We have located one of the three females that are considered to be part of the Dark Garden. We have revealed that her name appears to be “Deadnettle” although we are doubtful that is her true name. She appears to display her power in terms of “nature” as if she were some manner of tainted druid. She is capable of transforming into a giant spider as well as a small bird. If she is capable of turning into other beasts, we have not witnessed such. She appears to be skilled in some manner of twisted animal husbandry and alchemy, both things of which I will explain later in my report.

==The Enemy's Plans==

It appears that Deadnettle has two plans that we managed to reveal.

===I: Gorimdun Mine===

The first plan involved the eggs of a black dragon and some twisted manner of foulspawn that is tied to trolls. Deadnettle has managed to create a dark and dangerous form of troll that carries some of the traits of a black dragon as well as those that are typical of a troll. They appear to be hardier and stronger than a typical troll and at closer inspection, are covered in black scales. Although I am not clear on exactly how Deadnettle accomplished this; by using the black dragon eggs and using them with the trollish foulspawn, a number of these trolls were created. We dispatched a significant number of these trolls but the Gorimdun Mine a is labyrinth beneath the surface and it’s possible there are more of these abominations hiding in the darkness. I am confident in my assessment that this threat from Deadnettle has been resolved. From what we revealed, Deadnettle only had one of these foulspawns and we dispatched the beast in the bowels of the Gorimdun mine. We have also ensured that Deadnettle will not be able attain more black dragon eggs although the means with which this accomplished is bit more...contentious.

====Complication: The Dragon====

Deadnettle, through lies, subterfuge and misdirection had convinced a black dragon from the north that I was the one responsible for the loss of its eggs. The dragon was rampaging as I can assume any parent would, and with Deadnettle’s poisoned words still echoing in its massive reptilian head, the beast was directed towards Tesh Valley Farm and informed that my mother resided there. It appears that Deadnettle particularly targeted me and what remains of my family. It seems that the Dark Garden believes I am a threat and Deadnettle clearly took the necessary steps to all but ensure that I would be directly in the path of a rampaging dragon. A few days earlier, I had revealed a secret Sharran temple in the middle of Dagger Falls, and Deadnettle barely managed to escape by turning into a bird and flying into the darkness. I would say this was a reason why Deadnettle had targeted me, but this plan regarding the dragon and the trollspawn has been clearly in the works for quite some time. It might very well be that Deadnettle; vexed over having been exposed in Dagger Falls hoped to remove me from the current situation by lying to the dragon she was manipulating and told it that I was the one responsible for stealing away its eggs. Once again, it is important to note that we truly have stopped one of Deadnettle’s plans but it was accomplished in an unusual fashion.

Upon dispatching the trollspawn matriarch, we received message that Tesh Valley Farm had been attacked by a black dragon, demanding my mother, or myself. It appears that the dragon has taken up residence to the east in my ancestral estate and rather than risk putting Tesh Valley in further danger, I decided that we ride to Warburton Farm and resolve the situation of this dragon. To be succinct, we did not battle the dragon, and in fact; I was able to reason with it and reveal to it that Deadnettle had indeed deceived it and was the one responsible for the loss of its eggs. It was not the most intelligent of beasts but clearly capable of reason as I proved to it that the trolls that were also mucking about on the Warburton Farm were indeed the foul results of Deadnettle’s experiments.

====Solution: The Compact====

The black dragon truly does believe Deadnettle is the one responsible and now resides in Warburton Farm which has been transformed into a dark swamp. The dragon wishes for me to deliver Deadnettle to it, alive. I have every intention of keeping my word to the beast. I believe Deadnettle needs to be held accountable to her crimes against the dale and it’s people and I believe that being the captive of a furious dragon will be a fitting punishment for her. The dragon; being a dragon was still difficult to negotiate with and it insisted that it be allowed to call Warburton Farm it’s home while it waits for me to deliver Deadnettle. In this, I had to relent and agree. I understand that I bargained with a dragon like one might bargain with a vendor at a market. I understand all of this but had I not, I would be dead, most likely the White Cloaks I was leading would be dead and there would be a black dragon rampaging throughout Daggerdale. Because of me, currently a black dragon is simply calling a small portion of Daggerdale its home, and only so long as it takes me to deliver to it, a package of sorts. I let the dragon know that although I certainly would not return to attack it; as I intended to keep my deal with it, I could not guarantee that others would arrive to drive it away. As part of the agreement, I let it know that should it attack any man or any beast within Daggerdale, that it would bring the full might of Daggerdale upon it and it would never have the opportunity to be given Deadnettle. The black dragon is indeed an enemy of the dale. It is a powerful and dangerous enemy. At the moment however, it is also the enemy of the Dark Garden and the Netherese invasion. For the moment, that enemy is an ally...if we leave it be. If I had not made this arrangement with the beast, I would not be making this report right now, and it is entirely possible that none of the White Cloaks would have returned. Furthermore it is quite certain that Tesh Valley Farm and others in the dale would be a smoking and bloody ruin.

===II: Espionage===

Deadnettle’s second plan is to clearly gather as much information about Daggerdale as possible. Through the use of spells as well as powerful potions, she is extremely skilled at making herself appear to be anyone. We uncovered irrefutable evidence of such in Gorimdun mine as well as at Teshvale Farm. This explains how she was able to infiltrate Dagger Falls so easily and I believe this plan is actually the greater threat than any manner of half troll and half dragon. She is sowing discord, doubt and treachery throughout the entirety of the dale. Until I and the White Cloaks had revealed the secret Sharran temple in Dagger Falls, no one had any idea just how deep the Dark Garden has infiltrated our homeland.

Deadnettle can be anyone. She is extremely skilled and clearly she is augmenting her ability with powerful alchemical potions. Although we destroyed her equipment in Gorimdun mine, I would be surprised if she did not have more in another secluded place. It is imperative to understand that she is so skilled, she could be within the walls of Castle Radiance right now, if she has not infiltrated already. The church has a responsibility to its faithful to protect it from such violations. She has no remorse. She will kill and use anyone in order to further her agenda.

I am currently working on a plan to ensure that people around me are who they say they are, and once I am able to solidify my plan, I will reveal it to you.

==Allies==

Currently; here is a list of people that I am sure you are able to trust.

*Magistrate Hoetmer: This man needs to be protected every hour of the day. He is completely trustworthy and quite possible one of the most important people in our war against Netheril. I cannot express enough how important it is to protect this man and ensure his comfort and safety at every moment of the day. Losing this man will cripple us in the war.

*Banitt Harbaugh: Banitt is a convenient and desperate choice that was made by the upper clergy of the Castle. He has been saddled with a responsibility that might very well lead to his own destruction. He alienated members of the White Cloaks that are not considered of the faith on the most recent assignment and revealed himself to be a poor paymaster and poor leader. With all of that said, he is as stalwart a companion as I have met and had he not been part of our group, our corpses would still be getting chewed by black trollspawn in the bowels of the Desertsmouth mountains. Although I do not believe he should be in a position to make decisions, I also believe that he is completely trustworthy.
*Corran Altair: Altair although quite different from Banitt, is also quite close to the priest. Altair was visibly angered by the decision I had made regarding the black dragon but his duty to the White Cloaks and the chain of command kept his teeth together and his opinions to himself. The man is utterly trustworthy and we are lucky to have the Tormite with us.
*Rhuun of Thunder: The giantkin seems to be utterly incapable of guile. He is loyal, courageous and ferocious, almost to a fault. The priest appears to simply wish to destroy the Netherese that are responsible for devastating and violating his village and his people.

I do not mean to suggest that anyone NOT on this list is to be put to the Questioners. I simply wish to remove all doubt regarding the aforementioned individuals.

==Inter Alia: The Tethyamar Door==

While within the Gorimdun mine, we are quite sure that we discovered a long forgotten entrance to the lost dwarven kingdom of Tethyamar. I understand how outlandish that sounds but we have every reason to believe we are accurate. Included is a map to the doors and currently only the members of our assignment and Hoetmer are aware of our discovery. This could prove to be an incredibly valuable tool to gain us favour with dwarven holds in the nearby area and might go a long ways towards making some dwarven allies that could assist in our war against Netheril.

Before concluding this report, I wanted to remind you once more that Deadnettle could very well be walking about as someone else in any farm throughout the dale...ANYWHERE. The potions she uses, although unusually long-lasting still lose their potency and efficacy over time and I believe that she can be revealed if watched for diligently.

— Sergeant Iolus Warburton}}
