==The Warburton Perspective==

I have recently returned from a mission that was tasked to me by Lumina and those above her. Whereas I had some misgivings about being selected as the leader for the given assignment as well as those assigned to me; what transpired over the last handful of days has changed my perspective in a number of ways.

Some, insignificant...

...and others quite the opposite.

Before trying to put what transpired to word because some, if not most of it is so unusual to defy articulation, I will share what I have learned to those assigned to me as my opinions have changed from my initial assessment.

===Character Assessments===

*Banitt Harbaugh:  Banitt, originally known as “The Pilgrim” around the castle and quickly establishing himself as a well-respected and devout man amongst the White Cloaks as well as the clergy has now been selected as the bearer of the title “Guardian of the Saint's Tomb.” It seems that as the Sharrans grow in power and drive within Daggerdale, the need for something for the people to rally around has also grown. Banitt has been tasked with being the bearer of Ardelusk Whitegate’s holy blade. More than being tasked with being the bearer of the blade, he also carries the burden of being the central point of Castle Radiance and Daggerdale’s hope towards a future that is free of Netherese influence. From what I have heard from others, Banitt is without fault and I had as much confirmed by Corran Altair. What I saw at the conclusion of our investigation however is that perhaps Banitt is indeed affected by the pressure. When it came time to pay out the White Cloaks that had assisted with the current assignment, Banitt refused to on the claim that the money should and will go towards the people of Tesh Valley, and the rest to go to the institutions of Amunator. Banitt, as a devout worshipper of Amaunator and a member of the White Cloaks is without question. Banitt is not a leader of men however and it was clearly displayed in the way he alienated members of our investigation and all but sent the message that their assistance was no longer required or appreciated. I will be putting in a formal report to Lumina regarding this and requesting he no longer is in a position to act as the company paymaster on a given assignment. He has overstepped his authority and perhaps believes a little too strongly in the title and responsibility thrust upon him. I do not question who he is or his value to Daggerdale but I do actively question his ability to recognize who and who is not necessary to this cause we all fight for.

*Corran Altair: I openly questioned his ability and his stalwartness due to the failure of a previous assignment that he had taken part in. I would go out of my way to apologize to him for doubting him in such a fashion but I know that he would simply give me an unassuming smile and tell me that, “It is fine.” I am aware of Altair’s past. I have heard the whispers and rumours about how and why he fell out of grace with the Sun Blades and I can speak with great conviction that the man would have gone to waste in the Sun Blades. I saw the man singlehandedly, and without a weapon, I would like to add; fight off three winged demons that were harrying us for well over a day. At one point, during the fight; one of the demons had been struck so hard that it had fallen prone. Rather than strike the defenceless creature with a killing blow when the opportunity had presented itself; something I am sure any other White Cloak would do; Altair turned his back on the demon to continue fighting with the other two that were still standing. Some might say that displays of such honour and chivalry are a waste in this day and age, particularly when a demon is clamouring to bite out your throat. I would agree for everyone but Corran Altair. The man is a rock. He is unassuming and it is embarrassing to write this down but I am simply reassured by his presence. In the bowels of the Desertsmouth mounts, he singlehandedly held the right flank in a desperate fight against trolls that we were ill-prepared to deal with. He would strike a troll down with a mighty blow, only to have it rise again a few heartbeats after it had struck the ground. There were no calls for assistance from him and although I assisted him in dispatching the entire right flank, it wasn’t because he needed it. It was due to my lack of faith in his ability as one man standing against a group of trolls where he was outnumbered five to one. I now believe in what Altair is capable of and next time he tells me he has a situation well in hand, I will believe him just as I believe the sun will be rising at the birth of a new day.

*Rhuun, the half-giant: Much the same as I feel about Corran Altair, I committed the same sin against Rhuun. I used the term half-giant, or giant kin in an unflattering and unfair manner and fully expected Rhuun to be some manner of savage. The only savagery I saw from Rhuun was when he was fully engaged with the enemy, rushing past our warriors Altair and Drake to be the first to strike our enemies. He is an unusual combatant but there is no doubting the efficacy of this shaman. The important point to make is that Rhuun is a shaman from his tribe and not a warrior. I truly marvel at what a warrior of his tribe would be capable of and if Rhuun is indeed an emissary for his people and there will be more of his kin joining our cause, then Amaunator is truly blessing us. Despite being treated poorly by Banitt at the conclusion of our assignment, Rhuun still appears to be devoted to our cause and will prove to be a ferocious foe for the Netherese .

*Sorashana:  A wielder of arcane energies and clearly she obtains access to this power through a means that goes beyond what a typical mage gains their access. At one point during a night that we were encamped, I overheard her discussing her source with Altair. There was a point where she explained that some of her ability could be augmented or fuelled by energy provided by others. Altair asked in his calm fashion if it was blood that fuelled her incantations and I distinctly remember her saying it was not blood, but that it came from within and that it needed to be given freely. These sounded decidedly dark to me, but Altair simply concluded the discussion that should she need such things from him, it would have to be discussed at that time, and how dire the current situation was would play a role in his decision to offer up what he believed to be some manner of access to his soul. Altair is indeed a trusting one, where I most definitely am not when it comes to such things. I was determined to keep one eye on Sorashana and the other on the assignment given. Keeping one eye, if not both on Sorashana is not an onerous task. She is a beautiful, compelling creature but quite different from Troia or Lumina. She has a ferocity to her; an imperiousness that can be intimidating at times. I saw that ferocity and ability to intimidate put to good use in Dagger Falls when seeking information. I find it interesting that she appears in a fashion that might suggest she is one of the Sharran females associated with the Dark Garden. Sorashana might very well pass for a Shadovar were it not for the fact that she absolutely despises that race and makes no effort to be subtle about such things. I know nothing of Sorashana’s past and as much as I have doubt about her origins, and even her intentions, I put all of my faith in the hatred she has for the agents of Netheril. There were a number of times that any of us could have turned away...to have simply left the other members when things grew difficult. Sorashana stayed with us and was a valuable contributor to the assignment. It is a shame how Banitt treated her, and I believe it was her that was the cause of much of Banitt’s ire. I am concerned that his mistreatment of her will cause her to move on, and no longer be a member of the White Cloaks.

*Drake Sterling:  A mercenary, or at least seemingly, one of the mercenaries you happen to come across while at Castle Radiance. Always friendly, and effective when in a fight. There was a moment where he was entirely surrounded by trolls that were biting, clawing and slashing at the man. I have no idea how he managed to survive such things but he is clearly skilled. My greatest concern is that I have no idea what drives him. What his passions are. It is exceedingly difficult to understand an individual’s intentions when that individual relinquishes little to no information about themselves. We have every reason to believe that Dark Garden agents are amongst us and could very well be the person we have known for days, weeks and months. As effective as Drake is, until I know more; I do not believe I will be comfortable with him being part of an assignment I have been given.

===Ruminations===

That is my own assessment of the individuals that I had been tasked with leading. It is possible that some of them are already out on other assignments and I will never see any of them again. Although I still wonder about Tuugan, Alystair and Troia, and hope for the best for them; I have become resigned to the fact that forming bonds with these people is a mistake. Daggerdale is slowly beginning to realize that we are at war. I have known this since returning from Gang’Dar. Dark times are upon us and we will only find the light by moving through the darkness, and not by skirting around it.

I mentioned my concerns about Banitt and he is the perfect representation of what is precisely wrong with Daggerdale and the theocracy that governs it. The faithful of Amaunator brought Daggerdale back from absolute destruction but now the church is too unwieldy to be effective. It is slow, ponderous and quick to delude itself that it is doing the right thing when it clearly is not.

Through luck and taking advantage of the authority given to me as a sergeant of the White Cloaks, I was able to reveal a secret Sharran place of worship in the marketplace of Dagger Falls. Dagger Falls. The very centre of Daggerdale. One of two places in the dale that prides itself on being free of Netherese influence and it turned out that a member of the Dark Garden had established a place of worship for her kind to honour their Dark Goddess. It brought no small amount of chaos to the city of Dagger Falls, and unfortunately it incited the guards to kick down a number of doors and interrogate a number of citizens that are innocent. I have little time for remorse regarding my actions in Dagger Falls. We are at war, and not only is the enemy in our midst but they take great lengths through the use of potions and arcane rituals to make them look like us. If a member of the Dark Garden is capable of establishing a place of worship in Dagger Falls than the church is failing its citizenry. It is important to note that I do not suggest that Amaunator; himself is failing his worshippers in Daggerdale. I said the church and it is precisely what I mean. Bureaucracy and agendas now dulls the efficacy of the faithful that once brought Daggerdale back from the edge of doom.

Much of what I write seems grim, but I feel the Sun Lord inside of me and while darkness seems to be pressing in around us I know that I will continue to be a blazing light of truth and action during these trying times. 

===Account of the Battle===

We did battle with a member of the Dark Garden. She was skilled with alchemy as well as some manner of monstrous manner of animal husbandry. Through the ample use of arcane rituals and trickery she has managed to use some manner of foulspawn...some manner of “troll-mother” and by feeding this creature the eggs from a black dragon, she was endeavouring to create an army of black-scaled trolls. We destroyed the foulspawn as well as a significant number of the black trolls. We also did battle with the Dark Garden acolyte and she proved to be a slightly capable but utterly slippery foe. Despite my White Cloaks being harried on all sides by trolls, we managed to force the woman to retreat. There was a moment where she transformed herself into a large, and decidedly ferocious spider, but Drake, seemingly unfazed by the long, hairy legs scrambling at him, and it’s fangs gnashing a breath away from his face; struck the woman with a mighty blow. One blow and the woman was frantically fleeing into the deeper recesses of the underground mine. We were unable to track the woman and as frustrating as it was to lose her, I am heartened by her lack of fortitude or drive to stand and fight for her cause. I know that I am not the most hardy of combatants but I will simply refuse to yield ground when in the face of a challenging foe. Amaunator guides my hand and my heart, and clearly this woman does not benefit from her relationship with Shar in the same manner that I benefit from mine with the Sun Lord.

Altair tells me that the member of the Dark Garden that he had encountered while on a previous assignment also fled at the first opportunity. Once again this heartens me. Yes, the dale is threatened and it seems an out and out conflict with the Netherese is inevitable but if Shar’s champions tuck tail and run each time things grow challenging, then I know that we need only provide a united front, set our jaws and do battle with these villainous cowards.

===Tavern Tales===

The other thing of note is that there will no doubt be stories and rumours being thrown about in taverns that the White Cloaks slew a black dragon. This is of course; a complete fabrication. I am not pleased about refraining from dispelling this lie, and no doubt it will be revealed to be a falsehood in time but I cannot help but feel that the current mental state of the upper clergy in Castle Radiance as well as Dagger Falls are ill-equipped to accept that I managed to negotiate with a black dragon. The beast has claimed my birthright as its new lair. Warburton Farm is now a flooded ruin and although it pains me to lose the last vestige of what my family once was, considering the dark acts that my great, great, great grandfather wrought some might call it justice. My mother is unaware and will no doubt, be devastated when she finally learns the truth but I simply could not risk the other White Cloaks under me when it came to battling the enormous and enraged beast. It seemed that the Dark Garden acolyte had managed to convince the dragon that I was the one that had stolen it’s eggs and used them in dark, and foul rituals. Even as I write this, I do not understand how I was able to convince the beast that towered over me, smelling of fetid water and raw, unfettered rage. I am sure that those I commanded on this assignment would have supported me and did battle with the ancient wyrm...well...I am sure that Altair would have. In fact, Altair was quite vexed with me that I refused to allow him to do battle with the dragon. Rhuun had to hold Altair, while Drake held the reins of Altair’s warhorse to keep from charging the dragon that threatened to devour me with every second word. It’s difficult to remember what I said to it...all I could see were its angry reptilian eyes and it’s fanged, foul-smelling maw that could have swallowed me in a single bite, but just as quickly it had landed before me, it was gone. The deal arranged and should we manage to capture the Dark Garden agent that deceived the dragon, I will return her to the dragon, alive as it requested.

If I had not, I would not be sitting here and writing this right now and I am sure that none of my companions would be breathing at this moment. There is more to do, but first I must complete my report to Captain Whitegate. The forthcoming days will prove difficult and even as my faith wanes in the theocracy that rules Daggerdale my faith grows in the people that the theocracy should be serving.

Iolus Warburton

1st Sergeant, White Cloaks
