== 16th Mirtul, 1479 ==

===To Castle Radiance===
 
It’s been proclaimed “The Year of the Ageless One” and as I sit here and write this; illuminated by a single flickering candle, I cannot help but wonder just who this “ageless one” is. Something in my heart fears that whoever – or whatever – this ageless one is, it has ill intentions for my home, my people and my faith.
 
The last month and a half has been a harrowing one. I had been excited and filled with the exuberant type of naivety that one could only find in an individual that knew nothing of what they hoped to embark upon. I left Morning Star Tower with a patrol consisting of men from the Order of the Lambent Shield, a handful of priests of Amaunator and a priestess of Sune by the name of Troia Trustar.
==== The Servant of Lady Firehair==== 
I was unaware of just whom this priestess was but a few of the less devout men of the patrol and even some of the priests could speak highly of her ability to sing, to spin a tale and most often they spoke of her ability to dance. Troia appears to be half-elven and like most females of her kind, she is distractingly attractive. Where some women are beautiful and (as in the case of Lumina Whitegate) close to ethereal, Troia has a raw and untamed beauty that not only inspires and instils awe (like Lumina does) but simply fill you with thoughts of love as well as more tempestuous acts.
 
She is a lovely woman, a graceful woman and a dreadfully sweet and caring woman, all of which are reasons why I did what I could to distance myself from her. I am on a physical and spiritual journey to prove my worth to the Sun Lord who grants me His boon. Becoming enamoured with an attractive woman like some of the other men I had been traveling with at the time simply dilutes my purpose and my focus.

I kept busy during the tenday it took to reach Castle Radiance. I spoke to a number of the soldiers about what was transpiring in the foothills of the Desertsmouth Mountains as well as what might be expected when we arrive at Castle Radiance.
 
I had heard tales of Castle Radiance but there is truly no way to full prepare yourself for your first sight of it when it becomes visible, perched between those two black peaks. Resilient and unyielding, confronted by the dangerous lands surrounding it and the Netherese empire looming in the West.
 
It is impossible not to be inspired. 
 
Even upon first spotting Castle Radiance from the well-worn but treacherous road through the mountains, it still takes another day to reach it. As dark and dire as the Desertsmouth Mountains can be, the views can be exceptionally impressive and Castle Radiance is the pinnacle of such.
====Two Interrogations====
Castle Radiance is both much more than as well as nothing like what I expected. It’s a bustling, chaotic place filled with people of different races all with different reasons for being there. The difference between Castle Radiance and a more common adventuring hub is the vetting that occurs the moment you arrive there. There can of course be little question regarding my devoutness or my intentions but this made little difference during the inquisition that decided whether or not I would be allowed to enter through the gates. So severe and thorough was the questioning that I feared I would be turned away at one moment because I failed to prove my worth, or worse still because of my family’s past.

Perhaps it was my own self-doubt that made the questioning seem worse than what it was but at the end of it, I was allowed admittance through the great gates of the castle. I had been there for a day. I hadn’t even begun to explore the castle and all that was within it when I was approached the following morning by Troia and two of the men from the Order of the Lambent Shield with whom I had traveled. It was Troia who spoke and though I am no coward, I had no desire to leave the castle so quickly, having just arrived, that was precisely what she suggested. There was always rumour of orcs on the move, apparently, but a more immediate threat had appeared. A place of importance to the church, Fort Bloodpine, was in need of reinforcements and Troia was joining the group that was heading there to bolster the forces responsible for defending it.
 
There was no sense of manipulation or coercion in the eyes of Troia Trustar when she smiled politely and asked me, “Are you coming along, Iolus?” I had a dozen different responses in my head, each pushing one another about to be the first spoken to the half-elven Sunite. What was said was a simple and unremarkable, \"Of course.\"
The next morning while accompanying the reinforcements headed to Fort Bloodpine, I had difficulty understanding what exactly had put me onto this current course. In this case, to my chagrin, it hadn't been the will of Amaunator but that of a raven-tressed half-elf with a smile like the sunrise. I could still feel the presence and guidance of the Sun Lord, but my heart quailed for a moment as I wondered what the price would be for having been so led astray when there was clearly much work that could have been done at Castle Radiance.

===The Doom that Came to Bloodpine===

The price was made clear a few days later. Troia and I were the only remaining survivors of the team of reinforcements who had left Castle Radiance, and found ourselves being forcibly marched away from the burning, bloodied remains of Fort Bloodpine and deeper into the mountains towards an orc outpost I later learned was called Gang'Dar. Orcs had fallen upon Fort Bloodpine like a tidal wave and although the defenders had fought bravely, we were crushed quickly and brutally. I had been laid low by a blow to the head from a shield and to this day there is a jagged scar above my right eyebrow where the boss of the shield that struck me opened me up. Troia and I were not alone as the orcs had also gathered up as many residents of Fort Bloodpine as they could. Stonemasons seemed to be of particular interest to them, though this extra attention didn’t prevent  a few of the survivors from eventually losing their lives during the march to Gang'Dar. Upon arrival, we were all locked away in a tower and left there. 

==== The Prison at Gang'Dar ====

How much time then passed would have been difficult to ascertain for some imprisoned souls, but I am one with Amaunator. 
 
When he retires at the end of the day, I know.
 
When he rises at the beginning of the day, I know.
 
We were in the tower for two days, given dirty water and nothing else. Things seemed grim. Twelve men and one woman imprisoned in a tower makes for uncomfortable living conditions but the truth of it seems that I was the one bothered most by it. The stonemasons relied on Troia to bolster their flagging spirits. Of course less civilized men might chuckle and speak inappropriately regarding what a beautiful Sunite priestess can do to bolster morale, but I now believe that such men have never truly encountered a Sunite. Troia told us tales from the past to distract us from our current situation and sang to us quietly when fear began to take hold. I had the will and warmth of Amaunator to keep me secure emotionally and spiritually, but for the rest of the men, Troia was their sunrise. I had entertained the thought of speaking to them about the god that played the singular role in the rebuilding of Daggerdale but upon observing the men and the way they spoke and revered Troia, I decided that keeping them relatively content and without fear was better for them. It feels strange to write such things. It feels strange to admit that in this situation, perhaps Sune played a greater role in the preservation of the men than my god, but I am secure enough in my own beliefs to know that there is a reason why there are as many deities as there are. At times it seems like there is a god for every emotion and every possible moment of the day, but there is only one god that marks the beginning and the end of each day. There is one god that watches over us at all times and that is Amaunator.
 
The men needed Troia and they needed the blessing that only Sune could bring to them. They needed to be reminded that there was still beauty even in the middle of a hopeless situation and at that point in their lives, I am sure they all loved her simply because they needed to. As I write this, I think I might have actually loved her as well. 

==== Separated ====

The smell in the tower where we were contained was growing worse and although we weren't dying of thirst, the health of everyone was on the decline. It was expected to get worse but none of us knew how bad it was truly going to get. It was late at night and while some of us were doing what we could to sleep, we were all awakened by the door being kicked in and orcs pouring inside the tower. Spears and swords were levelled at us and we were all trying to understand what was happening when a large, naked orc strode into the tower and walked directly towards Troia. I was still struggling to piece everything together and had not acted but Troia was already on her feet. Perhaps she has grown to expect such unwanted attention and that was why she didn't seem surprised by the bold and crude actions of the orc. She leapt towards the orc with a snarl on her normally pleasantly curved lips and a beam of light shot from one of her hands and struck the orc warlord in the middle of the chest. Burnt flesh overrode the smell of filth in the tower for a moment and a black mark appeared on the smouldering skin of the orc warlord but it seemed unfazed. It caught Troia as she leaped towards him in a crushing hug and even as she clawed and bit at him he simply squeezed tighter until she gasped for air and then drove his large head into her own.
 
All of the men, including myself had been frozen in horror and surprise up until the naked warlord knocked Troia unconscious, but when that happened the room exploded in violence. The unarmed stonemasons fought with a fury that was surprising. I sent a single orc staggering away from me, his face still smoking from the burning beam that had lanced out of my hand but then I felt a spear pierce my thigh. I sent a second orc reeling away from me with another burst of light but a heavy fist caught my jaw and then my head struck the tower wall in turn.
 
The light of the waking world left me even as I heard cries of protest and rage as well as the guttural jeering of orcs and eventually the whole world slipped away.

====Guilt====

The world returned with a jabbing pain inside my skull but that pain was minimal compared to the other pain I felt. Troia was gone. Three of the stonemasons were dead on the floor and the remaining eight stonemasons were utterly demoralized. I had been unconscious for only a few hours but three of the stonemasons had been weeping since the orcs had left, and continued to do so.
 
I felt sick when I thought what Troia was going through at the moment and I felt even worse when I realized that I had allowed it to happen.
 
The smell of the filth, sweat, blood and fear in the tower was nothing compared to dark emotions that had now settled over me and the other eight men. I had grown used to the sound of the crying and a few of the men had simply laid down on the floor and curled up in a ball, perhaps trying to will themselves to die because they could not deal with the shame they felt.
 
Things could not get worse and I prayed to my god for a chance to right this wrong.

Amaunator found me fit to give me such a chance.

====Rescue====

The sounds of a fight had found our ears and with that we felt the first few sparks of hope kindle since having lost Troia to the warlord hours before. Listening to the fight going on outside the tower was maddening and nerve-wracking but then the door to the tower was kicked open once more. We were ready for a fight this time and it was only my cry to \"Hold!\" that stopped the stonemasons from jumping on the first creature that charged inside the tower. Three men entered the tower, one of them carrying an unconscious woman over his shoulder. The men were badly battered and bloodied and I quickly directed the stonemasons to bolster the doors in the tower and hopefully keep the orcs from battering their way in once more.
 
The three warriors looked harried and clearly desired to have a moment to gather their thoughts as well as tend to their wounded comrade who was none other than Lumina Whitegate. Amaunator truly did wish to give me a chance to prove my worth and right my moment of inadequacy and Lumina's presence was a sign, despite her current state of health. The orcs were regrouping and would be falling upon the tower any moment. There was no time to wait, especially with Troia still the unwilling captive of the warlord. My heart faltered when I thought about what she was going through and I could only hope that we could do something to right this wrong.
 
The stonemasons were directed to defend the entrances to the tower as well as tend to Lumina and the three warriors and myself climbed the inside of the tower and pushed our way out onto the perimeter wall of Gang'Dar. 

==== The Liberators ====

As much as this interrupts the telling of my tale, this is a good time to put words to my thoughts regarding the three men that came to our rescue.
 
*Dorian Dale - A man strong in body as well as faith in Amaunator. I am unsure if Dorian knows who I am, but I am well aware of who he is. We are of a similar age and Dorian led a life that most children want. He is popular, happy and physically capable and talented, and has a history nearly the exact opposite of mine. He came from very little but with that, he also had very little baggage. Where I feel like I have the weight of the spectacular failures of my family's name on my shoulders, Dorian is a man free to simply carve out his own story. He is as quick with a sword and a shield as he is with a smile and a joke and anyone would be lucky to have him at their side or at their back.
 
*Tuugan Swift - A man of the forest, although he carries himself like a farm-boy at times. Not all farms in Daggerdale are at parity with one another regarding wealth and success but being a farm-boy myself, I recognize another when I see one. Where Dorian is passionate and clearly wears his emotions like some wear their armour, Tuugan is very contained and reserved. It would be foolish to mistake his reserved nature as a sign of weakness however as I have seen him put an arrow through an orc's eye only to drop his bow, draw a blade and gut a second orc in the matter of two heartbeats.
 
*Alystair Dretch - Alystair and I are opposite sides of the same coin. My relationship with Amaunator is not quite like that of the typical worshipper and I could see that Alystair was the same. He nearly glowed from the inside, out with the righteous fury of the Sun Lord coursing through him but where I prefer to use Amaunator's will to scorch and dazzle my foes from a distance, Alystair throws himself into combat with reckless abandon. I had thought that since he and I share so many similarities that we would become fast friends or trusted comrades but Alystair is wildly distrustful of people and seems to carry around no small amount of awful feelings and memories from his past.  Alystair is not from Daggerdale and hails from Impiltur and from my studies I have learned that where parents in the west will tell their children tales of monsters hiding in the shadows, in Impiltur, they are not tales. It is fact. Alystair never seems to relax and his lack of faith in the Whitegate theocracy is disheartening. I would never go so far as to call myself carefree but compared to Alystair I am as carefree as a gnomish bard drunk on fey wine.  Alystair is chosen by Amaunator for a reason and were he not a good man, he would not be the righteous beacon that he is.  It does not always make up for the fact that his is unpleasant and cantankerous much of the time but it might be due to the difficult road he has had to walk.  Time will tell.

==== Storming the Walls ====

These three men and I stormed the walls of Gang'Dar, and the number of orcs that fell beneath the weight of our steel and our will was not a small one. We fought with desperation to make our way out of the open area atop the wall where we were constantly assaulted by orcish archers, then towards another tower that we hoped held Troia, as well as other captives from Fort Bloodpine.
 
We were nearly at the next tower when we were met with more orcs than we could deal with and more arrows that filled the air than I had thought possible. Going back to the tower where we had been held captive would subject us to more attacks from archers and going forward seemed impossible. I was already resolved to the fact that I was going to die, but I would indeed die well in the service of Amaunator and my only regret was that we were leaving Troia to a cruel fate. I had just blasted an orc off the wall with a divine extension of my will and was looking for the next orc to burn to ashes when I spotted something out of the corner of my eye.
 
There was a large, central tower in the middle of Gang'Dar and it was from there that the archers were harrying us and the midday sun was blazing down upon us from high in the sky and although all I could see was the slender silhouette as it streaked through the air, covering a distance of more than thirty feet only to land on the top of the shorter tower where we were once held captive; I knew who that silhouette was. 
 
Troia.

==== A Bolstering of Spirit ====

Even from where we fought on the wall, I simply stood still and watched her hurtle recklessly through the air.  I had no idea if she would make the leap and even when she landed atop the tower we had previously abandoned, she landed far gracefully than I ever would have expected.  Her ankle rolled over painfully upon landing but it seemed to do little to slow her down as she quickly threw herself off the top of that tower and landed on the wall that we were battling on.

It all was so surprising that it had yet registered in my brain that not only had Troia almost flew to our side but she was entirely naked.  She seemed completely oblivious to it at the time and she shouted in a tone that one did not expect to hear from a woman as beautiful as her.  \"Back to the tower!\", and she motioned with one arm for us to return to her.  There was little hesitation and we all turned and ran as quickly as we were able, ducking and dodging arrows while trying to get back into the tower once more.

Upon getting inside the tower, it was clear that my earlier surprise was to also be shared by the stone masons of Fort Bloodpine.  Troia had returned to us and without clothes no less, which only seemed confirm our fears of what manner of violations she had been subjected to.  She motioned us to hurry to the floor of the tower beside her and upon the last of us stepping down off the ladder Troia began to glow with a rose-coloured and golden light.  The entire tower was suffused with light and everyone present felt their spirits and health bolstered.  The power of Troia's goddess washed over us and at that moment, with Troia standing in the middle of us, her hair whipped about by an unseen wind and a look of determination on her beautiful face, I find it difficult to explain that the fact that she was also naked seemed...right.

Troia's actions had also revived Lumina and while a few were helping her to her feet, Troia was given a sweat-stained and bloody tunic to wear by one of the stone masons.  The taking of Troia had been a blow to the heart of the survivors of Fort Bloodpine and with her return; despite the fact that we were surrounded by orcs, we were filled with hope.

Morale had been bolstered to levels that had seemed impossible only moments earlier.  The orc warband was closing in around us and we were trapped in a thirty foot by thirty foot tower.  There was nowhere to run.  There would be no negotiation.  I actually saw Alystair smile.  Not the grim, shallow smiles that the stone masons were using in order to encourage one another.  Alystair's smile was one of eager anticipation and I have little doubt now that it won't be the first time I question his sanity.

==== The Battle For The Tower ==== 

Our ears soon rang from the clatter of orcish axes against the doors of the tower.  Stone mason's shoulders strained against the blows upon the wooden doors.  The tension was growing with each passing moment, all while Troia began to sing a soft, but clear song, speaking of courage and stalwartness.  There was no telling which door would fall first and my eyes flickered from one door to the next, readying the strongest blast that I could muster.

When the first door came spiraling off it's hinges, the triumphant howl of the orcs charging through were cut short by the light that roared from my hands and eyes, followed by a volley of crossbow bolts.  Orcs appearing, roaring with excitement only to be dropped by a withering hail of arrows from Tuggan.  Lifeless corpses fell to the floor only to be trampled by more orcs as they pushed into the tower to be met by the steel of Dorian Dale and Alystair Dretch.

From there, the fight became a blur of pain, steel and blood.  There was no finesse or beauty in the fight.  The close quarters offered no opportunity for mercy and even if there had been opportunity for such, none would have been given.  The floor was becoming uneven from the orc bodies and the stone masons that were succumbing to the onslaught when the warlord appeared.  The graceful beauty that Troia seemed to be was transformed into something frightful and snarling with rage.  Wearing no armour and armed with a sword dropped by an orc, she waded into the fray to stand toe to toe with Dorian, Tuggan and Alystair.  The fight became even more desperate.  Dorian tried to battle with the warlord even as he was flanked by more orc warriors.  It had stopped becoming a battle of which we would be victorious.  It was simply now a battle where we were trying not to die.  Dorian stood amidst the orcs as they mercilessly rained down blows upon him.  His shield being beaten out of shape with one blow coming from the warlord that I am sure shattered the man's arm.  Still he stood.  All of us battled and struggled with the orcs upon us, killing them before they could do the same to us all while Dorian took on the brunt of the assault.

It was only a matter of time.  The fall of Dorian Dale will never leave my heart.  Fighting off the enemies that were swarming all of us, I could still see the glee on the orcish faces as a battle axe found it's way beneath his shield and sunk into his midriff.  He fought even as he fell. He fought even as the orcs hacked at him and turned his skull into a grisly stain.  The fall of Dorian had the opposite effect of what the orcs wished however.  We surged against them in fury and a need for vengeance.  Alystair moved at speeds that truly seemed divine, weaving his way through foes, slashing at them and leaving corpses where orcs once stood.  Tuggan, not as swift as Alystair but certainly swift of thought positioned himself behind the warlord and with two cruel strokes, he managed to hamstring the large orc.  Alystair quickly took advantage of the opportunity and in a single whirling motion, plunged his blade through the chest of the orc warlord.  The rest of the fight was just as bloody but the rout was inevitable as the orcs, once bloodthirsty and drunk with confidence now stumbled over one another to flee the tower.

I like to think I am a man of honour and would never attack, let alone kill a fleeing or unarmed foe but with the death of Dorian and the violations that had been heaped upon Troia; I must admit that orcs definitely fell to my wrath while they were fleeing.  Troia was in a blind fury, hacking at the warlord with her sword and with a sickeningly wet sound, she pulled the orc's head from it's shoulders and quickly climbed to the top of the tower.  I followed for fear that she would fall to a hail of arrows from the orc archers that were still outside.  She was terrible in her rage and beauty, covered with blood and wearing only a stained and torn shirt, a bloody sword in one hand and the severed head of the warlord in the other.  There was no attempt to parlay.  The archers on the tower across from us looked at her in horror as she screamed at them in fury and threw the severed head of their leader to the ground far below.

All of them fled.

There were a few here and there that needed to be dispatched as we sought out the rest of the prisoners, all while Troia became more and more merciless with each passing moment.  Even at the end, with most of the prisoners rescued, the weight of what transpired weighed down on me.  Troia insisted on burning everything she could and the loss of Dorian in the way that we did; although all will say he died a hero, the cruelty displayed in the way he was cut down fills me with a starling sense of dread that I can only hope Amaunator will soothe or simply burn away with His support.

I have no doubt that we will be celebrated even temporarily as heroes but my heart says otherwise.  The loss of Dorian and the path that Troia now seems to be upon will make the celebration seem empty.  I can only hope that Amaunator gives me the necessary strength to work past this and that Troia can forgive me for failing to be of greater help to her and failing to stop the warlord from his foul treatment of her.
