27-28 Eleint, 1372 - Three friends, Maturin, Boregar and Dorian debate their next moves after the fall of the House of Xvim and Bane.

----

== Maturin the Grey ==

I know many people seem to have suspicions about my visions, yet I am relatively certain that it truly is Torm speaking to me. Torm the True... 

In any case, I will be true to my quest, and free the slaves then challenge Grandfather, and that is the order that things will occur in. The trouble is, I suspect that not all of the slaves have been freed. Tomorrow I will deliver an ultimatum to the Church of Cyric in Dagger Falls. If they do not free any slaves within their temple, the fate of the Xvimites and the Banites will befall them.

Who will support me?

== Boregar the Wanderer ==

All Zhents die, the wrong at that mine has yet to be righted... have you all forgotten the pile of burning slaves? I have not. The staff given to me by my love was broken by the Drake, but the Drake met his fate at the hands of a poor Sembian and a faithless paladin. A more than equal trade in my eyes. As for the Cyricists, the less of them the better. And Sparrow will rule fairly in the stead of Cormaeril. I feel good with the Baron’s Death, but more skulls will meet my wrath before I leave this town.

== Dorian of Sembia ==

...returning to Dagger Falls in the morning after an evening tryst with Dragon

Maturin, let me say, right away, that I'm sorry. I've been a little short tempered of late, and for that I apologize. I meant no disrespect at getting angry at you for killing Drake. Truth be told, had he even breathed on me at the point where you showed up, I would have died the death that has been coming my way. Your timing, in fact, couldn't have been better, and you...well... kind of saved my life there. So I'm sorry. Credit belongs to where credit is due, and you killed him. Well done, Paladin. But you must understand that I saw that demonic bastard disembowel my friend Dalak right before my very eyes. I was enraged with thoughts of vengeance, and wanted nothing more than to see my sword cleave through his skull, as payment for what he did to our dwarven friend. In the end, it doesn't matter who did it, so long as it was done.

You've saved my life on a few occasions now, and for that I'll follow you to wherever you plan to go. If you intend to stick it out here and battle Cyricists, then you can count on my sword. If you intend to hunt Grandfather and reclaim what is rightfully yours, then I'm with you too. And if you intend to march on Zhentil Keep and lay siege to the foul city through the winter, well, then, I guess I'll be going there too.

You're a good man, Paladin, and I'm honoured to fight at your side.

As for Gaebril and Boregar, well, they too saved my life. If they hadn't jumped in and fought Drake with me, buying me enough time to swallow over 3000 gold in healing potions, I wouldn't be here today. I owe them my life too. And for that, I'll follow them wherever they need to go, and repay their service in kind.

A Sembian may be crooked, but a Sembian always pays his debts.

Which is why I may seem a little scattered of late. My debts are piling up. I owe debts to 2 Paladins, a Fat man, a Half Elven woman, and 2 gods.

We MUST stop those tablets. But we must also finish the job we came here to do. There are still two demons loose in this town, and that doesn't sit right with me. There are also Cyricists, as you pointed out. We must also ensure that Zhents never again set foot in this land. Once we leave for the desert, there will be nothing stopping them from returning in greater numbers. Dagger Falls is too important for them to just let it slip out of their hands.

Which brings me to this William fellow. I was adamant about not committing regicide. But! There need not be regicide involved when what occurs is a complete change of government. William is a weak ruler, and so long as he sits on his throne, the Dales are in danger. We need to send him packing back to Cormyr somehow, and install a leader who we can trust, and who will not be swayed by the Zhents. And that leader should be Sparrow. He was born and raised in Daggerdale, he has proven his hatred for Zhents, and his strength of will, and he has the backing of Mystra and the people of Shadowdale. Not to mention that it was he who killed Yarkul. He intends to live here anyway and construct his temple, so why not set him to leading this dale into freedom? Of course, we could also leave Dalak and Balak behind as \"advisors\" to keep him on the straight and narrow...

Now, as far as our future plans go... our objectives should be clear and unified from here on in. One by one they must be accomplished, and we must put our own personal quests aside for the time being until we are guaranteed that our work is done.

First, we must expel the Cyricists from Dagger Falls and free any remaining slaves. Next, we must install a stable, strong and honest government to lead the dale into peace and prosperity. We must also secure the Dale's eastern borders, as attacks or incursions from the Zhent outposts there will surely come. Once all this is done, and we are sure that the Dale is secure and able to defend itself, we will venture West in search of the tablets.

Along the way, to the west, we will free the slaves that remain in the desert strongholds, and destroy the Zhentarim presence there. The road from Dagger Falls to Dekanter will be liberated, accomplishing Boregar's goals.

Next, we seek out Grandfather. You think me rash, Paladin of Ilmater, yet you were almost ready to charge into the desert without appropriate protection, weapons, or even a plan to deal with that beast. Our hunt for Grandfather will require tools which we do not have. We will venture with you on the hunt, and prepare you for it, but the battle is yours.

Once that is done, and you are either dead or restored to your honour, it will come time for you to help me pay my debts. We will seek out these tablets. We will seek out these beholders. And we will end this evil business once and for all.

As for your visions, Paladin, I'm still not sure that it is Torm who speaks to you. He may be called Torm the True, but he is also called Torm the Fool. Do not forget that. We follow Torm's words, and we end up one step behind our enemies at every turn. But if you say its Torm, then it must be Torm and not just crazy voices in your head, or the god of lies. I'll do as you ask, so long as it carries us closer to our goals.

And right now, our goal is a free Dagger Falls.

== Maturin the Grey ==

Boregar, in a dream I saw the bleached bones of those dead slaves towering higher than the sky, and I will take that vision to my grave. I have not forgotten that, and I have not forgotten the hours I spent laying their broken bodies in the cairn that we left in the Dagger Hills. I am not faithless, but I am unworthy of the faith of my god. Nothing in heaven or earth will stop me from seeking Grandfather when the time comes, but there is much to do before I can be ready.

I tell both you and Dorian that I sympathize more than I should feel comfortable about with your plans for Sparrow, but I feel that such a change so soon will only wreak havoc with the town. Cormaeril and Sparrow are close – and it is this relationship that must be cultivated. With Sparrow's help, Cormaeril may yet become a strong ruler, and bring stability to the dale.

But Cyric's shadow still sits long over this town. Agents of the Black Network stroll about with impunity, and there need be no guesswork about their patron. The Church of Cyric must be investigated, and evicted by any lawful means possible. And whether that law be the Law of Cormaeril or the Law of Tyr, we will soon see. The Naug-Adar lurk everywhere, and Cormaeril's hopes for a solid relationship with Yulash remain troubling to me. Is Yulash not the hub of Cyric worship in this area?

In my dreams Torm urges me away, towards my quest, but what manner of man would I be to put my own salvation above that of the souls of Dagger Falls? I will seek the champion of the lycanthrope god, but I will complete the quest as Shildevan commanded. Only when the people of Dagger Falls are free, may I seek my own freedom.

== Dorian of Sembia ==

Aye. Perhaps you're right Paladin. Perhaps this William fop must sit on his throne... for now.

But we must not forget that he was, or still is, under demonic influence.

After many a battle, I have finally named my sword. Behold Drake's Fall, Slayer of Demons! It may not have delivered the killing blow to the Baron, but it will surely fetch the heads of at least two more of the spawns of hell before I leave this Dale.  
So long as those two she-devils remain loose, our friend Sparrow is in danger. One of the demons, Yarkul's wife, desires vengeance for the death of her husband. She must be stopped before she claims Sparrow's soul for her own. The other... a bastard child issued from the union of Yarkul and his Demonwife, threatens not only Sparrow and the people of this Dale, but also her Half-sister, my lady love. I cannot allow such a threat to exist.

But we may get ahead of ourselves. The black-robed sorcerers and servants of the Prince of Lies must be dealt with, and they must be dealt with today! Let us seek them out, and finish our duty here. Let us bring freedom to the people of this land!

I am with you, Paladin, now as before, and as always.

One thought... perhaps I was rash in one element of our quest so far. I have given it some thought, and perhaps it may prove wise to open the Beholder Doors. There may be clues there, as Sparrow thinks. But more importantly, there is a chance... slight as it may seem, that there are survivors still alive, and trapped inside. A full company of soldiers went in, along with monsters meant to exterminate them. There is a chance that those men managed to subdue the beasts, and are still there, waiting for their freedom. We must attempt to open those doors and see for ourselves what fate they were condemned to. It may seal our own doom, but we owe it to the men, women, and children that met their end at that place to find out what they died for.

And one more thing, that list that names all known agents of Those Who Harp... did it contain the name \"Thagdul\"? It is clear to me that he is a Zhent... yet, it seems as though it was he who saved Sparrow from his folly in Dagger Falls. I am just curious on that point. However, I would very much enjoy having a chat with this Thagdul right now. I would wager my sword that all the answers we require are in his posession.
