right|thumb|400px|The demonic hordes of Hell catching the souls of sinners.
{{occult|On the Inculcation of the Nameless Immigrants from The Abyss into the Societie of Men in Avilund|12|center}}

{{occult|And|12|center}}

{{occult|The Recommended Rites and Treatments for Cases of Possession, Including Illuminations of Selected Known Cases of Possession and Demonic Influence and the Deserved Resolutions to these Incursions|12|center}},

'Penned by Inquisitor-Cardinal Hanzig Van Tassel, Prelate of St. Kerrigan, with Holy Permission Granted by His Most Holy Scion, Baudri Avitus Vanderwail in the Imperial Year of Thirteen Hundred and Forty Seven.

== Preface ==

It is most common to hear the utterance in any City, Town, Village, Hamlet and Cottage of the Empire, the terrible and loathsome word “Demon”. Most men and women, including those of Breeding and Education, are ignorant of the truth of that word, “Demon”, and use it to label nearly every type of nuisance and unpalatable creature or happening that besets them. However, blessed are the ignorant, and blessed are the deeds that spring from their fears and grievances. Surely, for every hundred cries of “Demon”, there is one cry that rings true, and it is up to the servants of the Saintly to investigate every cry and plea with due vigilance and prejudice, and find what true demons do lurk at the edge of the shadow of fear. It is the charge of the Ordo Calculus Veritas to be the eyes and ears of the Saintly Faith, and to be its hammer when the demon is found. In our Sacred Duty, we must not forget that it is only through brutal prejudice and merciless hunting for our prey that we may clean the taint of the Children of the Abyss from the Empire, and though a hundred innocent men and women might bleed before the demon is uncovered, we must accept that their deaths are more acceptable than the life of one demon.

== Adnihilo Taxonomie ==

It is not vital for the Inquisitor, least of all the Inquisitor-Innovitiae, to see the demon amongst his flock. If there be common complaint of demon and demonic doings, it is well that the Inquisitor find what might be the demon, and put an end to it by whatever means are available him. Trial and drowning are preferred, but fire, the rope, the blade and the mob are all viable tools for the meting out of the demon, or the supposed-demon, and his minions. It is better that one person suspected of demonic cavorting or demonic hosting be slain, though no proof be found, than anybody of people be left wanting for justice and safety. Again, if one hundred suspects are put to water or fire or blade, surely, one or more demons will be sent permanently from this world.

=== Espial of the Demon ===

However, the Inquisitor beset by more complaints and grievances than he can possibly address must know in which way to steer his gaze, for surely, most people do not know a demon from their kin in most cases, and it is often the case that the most terrible of fiends is never detected by any BUT the inquisitor. The commoner might call a cagey rat, which he is unable to capture season after season, a demon. He may call a terrible storm a demon. He may think his deranged sister a demon. He may call the Feral up in the hills a demon, or the sorcerer or witch a demon. It is well that common men make such complaints and charges so commonly, for it acts as a natural barrier to the proliferation of those Abyssal Spawne, but the Inquisitor may have to sort through these multitudinous ‘demons’ to find the genuine article, and dispense with it. There are some blessed few Men and Women of the Empire who are demon-sighted, and can spot them and their works immediately, as though they were illuminated in an unnatural and conspicuous light. However, the Inquisitor not so-gifted must rely upon the Prayer of Guidance to identify the demon.

The genuine demon is born of the Abyss, and finds its way to our World through some few portals that open at significant times, or through the invitation by mortal souls of this World. The demon may come to our World with either bodily or spiritual form, and it is likely that some lack any natural bodily form, and need the Earthly host for their works.

==== Adnihilo Corporeus ====

Of those demons with bodily form, there are countless different species of sizes ranging from that of a large rat, to those of gigantic proportions. They may have any number of limbs, heads, eyes, hands, legs, claws and so forth, but the Ordo encounters a preponderance of those that are roughly the size and composition of Men, no doubt owing to their desire to blend into our Societie, and their ability to change their form in this world. Though many have but one form in our World, there are some few who can change forms and sizes, and these provide the greatest challenge for the Inquisitor.

==== Adnihilo Incorporeus ====

Many demons come to our World in their soul-form only, and seek out the bodies of victims or willing supplicants to possess. These also provide a great challenge for the Inquisitor, but they may often be dealt with by the Brethren of St. Ignatius, who are known as Exorcists of the First Order. It is most often the case that a demon-soul forced from its host will return to the Abyss, but there are some powerful few who might go from body to body before they are dispatched. These are the most problematic, and require the assistance of other Canons to dispense with. It is well that the Inquisitor destroy any potential hosts, and possibly-willing supplicants, with or without proof of such, before the Exorcism is performed. Such was the case in Hamstonfast in 1021, and though the Empire reeled at the success of Brother-Inquisitor Dredfall's efforts, the demon in that case was banished.

=== Strengths of the Demon ===

The powers of the Demon are many, and many are uncharted. Most are resistant to the flame, which makes it an excellent tool for the discovery of these fiends. Though Dredfall calls for the complete immolation of suspects by flame, it is often only necessary to burn a limb or two in order to determine if the suspect be of demonic origin or not. Many demons of the Greater Order have great powers over the mind, and in all cases, the Inquisitor must approach Suspects under the Rite of Sanctity, girding also his retinue, if possible. It is common for the Demon to possess the power of flight, or of levitation, and these are problematic creatures to be sure. The Inquisitor is advised to keep at least one marksman in his retinue in order to end the flight of such creatures.

The demon is likely to be of great strength for its size, and of great speed for its bearing. This will often surprise the victims of the creature, and so the Inquisitor must always expect any Suspect to possess such peerless strength and speed, and prepare to counter it.

The Greater Order of demons all have some control over one or more of the Constituents, many of which master Fire. Records of demons with control over all 5 of the Constituents exist, and so the Inquisitor must prepare to battle against all of them. There are no records of a single demon possessing power over more than one Constituent, and so it is that the Inquisitor is directed to use both the Flame and the Water to seek out and exterminate the demon. The scattering of ashes of demons and Suspects into a flowing river is recommended, and the immolation of one drowned is likewise called for. It is well that the People see both of these actions carried out, so that they may employ these Elements on their own in time of great need and no Inquisitorial presence.

The demon's greatest weapon is fear, and it is for this reason that the Inquisitor must both master his own fears, and learn to wield fear himself. It is better for the People to fear the Inquisitor, who is pure and true, than to fear the demon, who is black and malign. Those who fear the Inquisitor more than the demon will do the Inquisitors bidding, rather than contrawise, and this is well. It is well that an Inquisitor make a terrible entertainment in Public of the first Suspect that is found in his investigation, and that no Man, Woman or Child be allowed to look away. They must see that the fate of the demon is terrible, as is the fate of those that would host, or assist the demon in any way. This fate should also be implicated for those who would not help the Inquisitor. If the People know the wrath of the Inquisition, they will prefer the unknown wrath of the demon, and thus cast their efforts as well as they are able to the cause of the Inquisitor, which is in fact, the cause of the Goode of the People, whether they know it, or they know it not.

center
