The story of Jeremy Pettiman

The Pettiman family is a family from the County of Norweald, holding baronial title in the parish of Avitus-on-Tine.

Mention of the Pettiman name, when heard in polite circles (an occurrence becoming more and more uncommon in recent years), rarely fails to evoke a certain tinge of sorrow, sympathy and the sense that the world is moving on. On those few occasions where such sentiment is absent, the response is generally laughter and a snorted refrain of “Good riddance to bad rubbish”.

Under the present baron, Gerome Pettiman, the family fortunes have progressed from decline to decay, and there is little reminder of the family’s former wealth. Part of this is due to the diminishing population of the Norweald countryside. The tenant farmers of Avitus-on-Tine have gradually been forced out, as their lands have been purchased to provide grazing for the vast herds of sheep owned by Waldheim's prosperous wool merchants. Once a thriving parish of over 1000 souls, it has been more than a century since the population was more than a hundred. Today, the village has perhaps a dozen inhabitants, and another couple dozen in the countryside. The lands are mostly vacant farms and some maple and oak forests.

Pettiman Hall is the largest domestic estate in the parish, and Baron Gerome and his eldest son Simon Gerrod live there alone, tending the property with no servants or staff. Called ‘Petty Hall’ by those who are even aware of it, the empty manor is large, draughty and much in need of repairs. With so few tenants, the barony cannot collect enough parish taxes to pay tribute to the Count, and it is likely that should the deficit continue, the family’s title will be stripped, and its lands sold off to pay bad debts. A younger son, Jeremy Puck, resides in the neighbourhood of Sever’s Cross, Waldheim on the border with the Fleet district.

However, a further, and perhaps more apposite reason for the Pettiman misfortune is Baron Gerome’s unwillingness to move with the times. Despite his rustic situation, Gerome is a proud man, and makes no secret of the fact that his family is connected to the Old Blood of Waldheim, and that his ancestors had the largest ranch of horseflesh in the Republic. Few, however, would disagree that this pride has been his downfall. Time after time, he has burned bridges with the increasingly powerful merchants of Waldheim, demanding their recognition of his inherent superiority as a member of the nobility. At first, many pandered to the Baron’s self-delusions as a way to seek access to the resources of Avitus-on-Tine. Unfortunately for the Baron, the false friends he made early in his career soon grew tired of their client’s insufferable eccentricities, and took their revenge through the ‘fine print’ of contracted agreements that the Baron had signed, but never read, confident in the inviolability of the Gentleman’s Agreement. 

Unfortunately, the Baron and the merchants differed in their definition of what makes a gentleman. A brief foray into the County Court made the Baron’s temper a cause celebre for a short time in 1736, but when the Court found in the defendants’ favour, Baron Gerome swore that “the lawyer may be classed in the natural company of Ferals” and to have no more truck with institutions that “forsake the Holy Pillar of Justice for the Greasy Quagmire of Law”. As the Barony’s situation spirals out of control, the Baron has taken steadily to drink, spending his hours and days quietly – and not-so-quietly – raging against the upstart classes of Waldheim.

The Baron has two sons by his wife, Lady Sarah Nonesuch, who perished in 1733 under mysterious circumstances, upon which the Baron has refused to elaborate ever since. Simon Gerrod, the elder of the two, is a dour and unimaginative man in his early thirties. Silent and friendless, uninspired and uninspiring, he acts as his father’s steward, cook, handyman and formerly coachman – though the family’s last horses were sold off six years ago. His days are spent in the upkeep of the estate, and his evenings listening in nodding agreement to his father’s never-ending tirades. Given the benefit of an education, it is possible that Simon Gerrod would be dissatisfied with his position. Not having had one, he is not. 

Nine years his brother’s junior, Jeremy Puck Pettiman could not be more different than his grim and gormless sibling. Heated in both physique and character, the contrast between the two is night and day. Whereas Simon Gerrod complacently sits at Petty Hall with his father, awaiting the extinction of the family line that inexorably draws near, Remy’s imagination, ambition and seemingly inexhaustible schemes and deceptions have earned him (a not unwelcome) banishment from his father’s presence.

As a child, Remy spent his summers and autumns in Methwold, in the City of Waldheim with his great uncle Farlinger, a relation of his mother’s. Given free reign of the city streets – anything to keep him from getting underfoot in his uncle’s house, he spent his days, and occasionally his nights, in the market district of Sever’s Cross, drinking in the grand pageant of haggling, swindling, bargaining and bullying that sent people, goods and, most alluringly, silver, dancing on through the great City. The market caught his imagination from the first instant he saw it, and it was only a matter of time before he became involved in the spectacle himself. Perceptive enough to realize that neither his father nor the traders of Sever’s Cross would take well to a nobleman’s child (even, and especially, a Pettiman) slumming with the merchant classes, he took to disguising his fiery red hair with a farrier’s cap, and using the crisp argot of the marketplace to obscure his rustic noble origins. His curiosity and, to some extent, his impudence served him well, and ‘Puck’ became well-known in the markets of Sever’s Cross, developing a reputation during the summer season as a reliable runner, sending messages between vendors and suppliers as the need arose. To his friends among the other runners, he also became known as a sly hand at pocketing and selling this and that bauble for his own profit, gaining the moniker “Puck the Magpie”, or “Eely Puck” for his ability to wriggle out of trouble. On those occasions when he was very nearly caught with his hand in the wrong pocket (and there were a few), Remy would always manage to play the role of the victim, put up to a ‘prank’ by local bullies. His uncle in Methwold never knew where the boy spent his time, nor cared, as his sister’s daughter’s boy was given room and board only by dint of a provision of the testatrix, and not through any benevolence of his own.

During the mild winters and springs back in Avitus-on-Tine, Remy forsook the musty shadows and cobwebs of Petty Hall for the open air. He affected uselessness around the house, thus securing license to accompany Petty Hall’s former steward, Northrop, on errands around the parish for supplies. By the time Northrop had been dismissed, Remy had graduated from a pony to a brindled mare named Westmore, his favourite from the stables of Petty Hall, and taken on the job of securing provisions himself. Even Puck the Magpie would have been impressed with the manner in which he accomplished himself, and there were many in the parish that came to rue the days on which they had to deal with the baronet with the silver tongue.

In his sixteenth year, two disasters occurred. The first was that his father forbade him from returning to the city for the summer season. A sudden turn of good fortune had brought in a large influx of capital, and Remy was needed on the estate to take care of some long-delayed repairs. The second of these occurred when he learned from his brother the source of the revenue that had so pleased his father – the sale of Petty Hall’s remaining horseflesh, including Westmore, to a successful Waldheim silver merchant who was resupplying his stables. His father’s temper ran strong in Remy, and the injustice of this double blow sent the baronet, just returned from a foray into St. Sebald’s-on-Tine, storming furiously into his father’s study, still wearing his riding clothes and farrier’s cap. The baron, as it turned out, was in the midst of finalizing the disposition of the horses with the merchant, but Remy paid no attention as he let loose a stream of epithets that would have impressed a seasoned veteran of Hog’s Market. The confrontation quickly escalated despite the merchant’s presence and ended with the father savagely striking his son to the floor of the study. As Remy lay sobbing, the elder Pettiman stood shaking in fury and shock. How dare the boy embarrass him this way in public! “I beg your pardon, Mr...” the baron began, but the merchant cut him off with a wave, looking coldly at the baron. “I am not impressed with what I have witnessed here, Mister Pettiman. In any case, I believe our business for the day is concluded. Please see that this boy delivers my horses personally next Tuesday to make his apologies. I bid you good day.” With a curt bow, Jack Spinner took his leave of Petty Hall.

The baron, discombobulated by the events that had just occurred, missed the verbal slight, but fumed even more at the idea of his son – a baronet! – taking on the work of delivery man. Still, the baron recognized that he needed the revenue these horses represented, and he knew that he could not afford to get on the wrong side of Jack Spinner. It was well known that Spinner’s wealth rivalled that of Count Norweald, and for all his hatred of the merchant classes, the baron knew that Spinner’s favour was worth the entire parish’s weight in silver. Ultimately, Baron Gerome decided that, as it had been the boy’s behaviour that had so offended Spinner, then the ignominy of the task would be suitable punishment. The implication of Spinner’s term of address missed him entirely.

In truth, Spinner had been disgusted by the actions of a man with whom he had quickly lost patience. At the moment the boy had burst in, he had been so sick of the baron’s attitude that he had been toying with the idea of ripping up the contract – and he had drawn up the blasted thing himself! However, he had immediately recognized the farrier’s cap the baronet had been wearing, and knew him to be Eely Puck, a runner that had served him in good stead over several seasons. The realization had piqued his curiosity about why the younger son of a rustic noble should be leading a double life as a street rat in Waldheim, and so he had given Pettiman his terms. And Jack Spinner knew they would be met.

In due course, at noon on the following Tuesday, Spinner himself met Remy as he delivered the twelve horses, including Westmore, to a farm outside of Highborough.

“Well met, young Master Pettiman,” called Spinner as he stepped out of the shadows of the stable, doffing a straw hat he had been wearing to cover his face. “Or should I say, Young Puck?”

Remy had been too incensed the week before to recognize Spinner, whom he had known for years in Sever’s Cross, and was for perhaps the first time in his life, at a loss for words. His game of nearly six years was up. Well, he supposed, no matter. It seemed that this year it was to be up one way or the other. He grinned as he vaulted from Westmore’s back and gave a graceful bow to the merchant. “We are both happy to be at your service, Mister Spinner. I entreat your forgiveness for my father’s lack of both couth and courtesy last week, ask you to excuse the tasteless manner in which my deception was unmasked.” Spinner laughed at the boy’s effrontery. This was Puck indeed, without a doubt.

Spinner had made enquiries around Avitus-on-Tine during the previous week, and knew well the lad’s reputation and circumstances. He knew that should Remy be confined to the parish at this impressionable age, the spark that he had admired in Puck in the markets – and in the fiery encounter of the previous week – would either be extinguished or grow wild in the company of his bleak and stifling relations. After an hour of conversation with the boy, he knew that something had to be done for the boy.

The next week, a letter came to Petty Hall from the Royal Company of Silversmiths to the attention of Baron Gerome.

“Dear Baron Gerome,

Many thanks for the delivery of the horses. The young baronet has apologized suitably for the encounter I witnessed last Tuesday week, and I feel no hesitation at the prospect of future dealings with your Estate. In fact, I understand from my close friend Viscount Nuald that the baronet is to spend to spend the summer and autumn with his great uncle Farlinger in Methwold. As my affairs in the City keep me in Waldheim, and I know that you are occupied with your estate in Norweald, the baronet is well placed to act as an intermediary between us. On my last visit, I espied a stand of timber that I feel we may be able to come to a mutually profitable agreement upon. Please send your reply as soon as you can to my offices at Silversmith House, Methwold.

Regards,
Jacob Spinner”

So it was that Jeremy Puck Pettiman, baronet of Avitus-on-Tine came to be employed as an apprentice within the machinations of Jack Spinner, soon to become the Master of the Royal Company of Silversmiths. The summer and autumn of 1745 changed Jeremy Pettiman’s life, and when he returned to Petty Hall that winter, he was burning with ambition to reverse the family’s destiny, and to restore the Pettimans to wealth, and through wealth, honour. 

Unfortunately, the past seasons had seen the beginning of a decline in the Baron’s health, and a corresponding increase in the unpredictability and severity of his tempers. While he had reluctantly consented to letting his son return to Waldheim for the summer and autumn, it had been on the assumption that his connection to Spinner would bear fruit in the short term. However, aside from an moderately lucrative sale of timber rights to Spinner’s organization, little other benefit had accrued. Were the relationship between the Pettimans and Spinner to bear any fruit at all, it seemed, it would be far in the future. And for Baron Gerome, any fruit he would not be around to eat was bitter indeed. 

Furthermore, the energy, ambition, and worst of all, the modern ideas that Remy had returned with to Avitus-on-Tine grated on the Baron’s nerves, and he began to resent Spinner all the more. To the baron, it was obvious that his son had been poisoned by the ‘New Finance’, and had lost all perspective on his rights and duties as a noble. To Remy, it was impossible not to realize that his father was the relic of a former time, rusted and useless in the modern world. Disagreements between father and son grew to arguments, arguments to quarrels, and, though Simon Gerrod did his best to act as a mediator, it became obvious that the battle of wills and temper could not end peaceably. In March of 1746, the baron banished Remy from Avitus-on-Tine on pain of disinheritance should the old man ever see him again. Jeremy Pettiman left Petty Hall the way a prisoner leaves the gaol behind him when he walks into the sunlight.
