Preface to the
Encyclopaedae Reliquiae Arcanum
Penned by
Sir Geofrey Golfschalk, Ph.D, M.M.Sc, P.P.E, Esq.
Completed in the 1723rd Year of the Age of Men
Acknowledgments
I should very much like to thank my Mentor, Dr. Willam Van Stayner, without whom the seed of knowledge in me would have failed to grow.  To the Goode Men of St. Ignatius
Waldheim, especially Bishop Adhemar, I owe a great debt; the sum of my knowledge of Middle Magic.  I should give all the praise I can gather to the Brethren of St. Anselm
s Waldheim, who not only provided me with access to the Scritorum Magus Magnum, but assisted me in my delvings therein.  I should give some thanks to the Canon of St. Avitus for not reinstating the Inquisition to deal with my questions.  Finally, all praise should be given to St. Ignatius, who remains, the Guardian of Insight.
Dictum Anticus
While it is to be assumed that most Scholars seeking out a Tome such as you read now would have at least a rudimentary understanding of the Taxonomies of the Arcane, I should provide some insight into the organization and classifications of the Supernatural.
There are many different manners in which Men harness the Arcane, and they are as varied and occult as those that use them.  While some forms of Magic may seem as different from one another as apples from badgers,  they are all connected in one regard; an evolution, so to speak, of the Art.  To fully understand the Taxonomy of the Arcane, one must understand the History of the Arcane.
It is indisputable that the Elders were accomplished practitioners of Art, long before our Young Race was conceived.  Evidence from the Lucivius Scriptora-Waldheim, site, unearthed in 1707 by the famous Archaeologist, Dr. Garick Shamehouse, indicates that the Elders had gone through two distinct Ages of Magic; Old and New.
Old Magic, also called Earth Magic in many circles both Educated and otherwise, is the Primeval Art.  The Elders were practicing it perhaps as long as 40,000 years ago.  This magic is chiefly concerned with the harnessing of natural energies for simple, often ignoble, endeavours.  This is the magic of growing crops, of warding off rain and other inclemencies, of making women fertile (or unfertile), of asking questions of animals, plants and even the earth itself.  This is an Art that has very little recorded history.  However, some of the earliest Elders did record cryptic, and to this day, largely not understood, monoliths with crude carvings and simple, Arcane Runes upon them that, while not understood presently, do still emanate strong magics.  We shall return to Old Magic shortly, when the evolution of Art in our own species is discussed.
Sometime between 35,000 and 30,000 years ago, the Elders had become fully Urbanized, and had developed a flourishing and sophisticated level of Culture, that our own species does not yet enjoy.  They had developed and mastered New Magic.  This Magic was a more Academic Endeavour, and records of many varieties survived until the Repurgo Imperialis of 1210-1348.  Few  records survived that Black Age, but mention of many famous documents did survive through great efforts of those opposed to the Repurgo and the bloody Regime of those Dark Days.  New Magic was principally concerned with refining the power of Old Magic.  The power source remained the same; the natural occult energies that fill the world.  However, the Elders that practiced this Art were more concerned with mastery of those energies, rather than working in communion with them.  Old Magic and New Magic have often been likened to the use of a fallen branch;  The practitioner of Old Magic may see the branch as a useful club, to be picked up and swung about.  The practitioner of New Magic would take the branch, carve it into a bow and several arrows and make a bowman of himself and the branch.  The raw materials remain the same.  It is only a level of refinement that separates the two.
It should be mentioned presently that the branch analogy is not intended to make Old Magic look weaker.  In fact, in terms of raw energy, Old Magic tends to be able to harness and focus more of it.
In our own History as Men, we have experienced a natural progression of Art as well.  It is well known that upon our Ancestral Islands, large stone markers with carvings of an obscure but clearly magical nature endure to this day (or, at least, they did until 1510; no Civilized Person has been to the Holy Islands since the termination of the Fourthe Crusade).  Our earliest Histories and Recordes, brought to this Continent by the Sons of Avitus, give strong testimonial to the use of Earth Magic on the Islands.  Moreover, they speak to an ancient tradition of Earth Magic and suggest that the practitioners of the Old Art were the very Pillars of our Ancient and Hereditary Society.
Men developed a form of Art that the Elders did not conceive of first; Ancestor Worship, or Middle Magic.  Middle Magic varies from both Old and New Magic, in that the source of power is Extraterrestrial or Celestial in nature.  Perhaps this form of magic was Fated to be developed by our Race, or perhaps we were acted upon by Celestial or Abyssal Powers, and urged to harness it.  It is hard to say why or by what means Middle Magic developed in our Race, but it did, and it is the most common form of Magic in our Society today.  Practitioners of Middle Magic go by many different titles and names.  In fact this taxonomy is so broad and varied that I should not be surprised to find myself at the end of the Inquisitors rope for suggesting that the Conjuror of the Black Faith and the Bishop of Avitus can both be grouped together under the title of Practitioner of Middle Magic.  But so it is.  The Culturally popular sect of Middle Magic is, of course, Saint Worship, or the Saintly Faith.  We can find churches of all sizes in every corner of the Empire, and some other places even more distant, to the hundreds of Saints that comprise our Pantheon.  However, this taxonomy includes those that invoke their powers from the Demons and Devils of the Depths, and many others besides.  The crude and barbaric Kells of the North, people we are certainly closely related to, have their own Pantheon which does not overlap with ours at all.  Yet, the source of their power is the same; it is loaned from beings outside of our world.
The study of New Magic by our Race began in
1199, by the founders of the Colegium Waldheim; Saint Ignatius, Saint Anselm and Saint Gratus, though our own mastery of this form of the Art was long it it
s development.  In fact, it is not until the dawn of the Age of Men, with the final conquest of Waldheim, that our study of, and mastery of New Magic would arise.  Shortly after the Colleagues of Waldheim met with the Last Elders, Waldheim finally fell to the Feral Hoards, and their Race was exterminated utterly.
When St. Abbadon re-conquered Waldheim in Year 0, the mysteries of the Elders were once again available to Men.  For the next 745 years, Scholars, and men of less noble vocations,  delved into the past, and the Age of New Magic was born, lived, and died.  It is during this time that the vast majority of the Artifacts which our Society has generated, about which this tome is chiefly concerned, were manufactured.  Many were lost during the Repurgo, but hundreds of Artifacts have come down through the ages, and many of those are herein discussed.
Unfortunately, in 745, the Prospectus Imperialis ex Daemonica was penned and peddled by Emperor Nicetus A.V., and the Age of New Magic came to an abrupt and bloody end.  The First Inquisition was spawned of that malignant document, and for almost 300 years practitioners of New Magic of all varieties were hunted down without mercy.  They were burned alive atop pyres of their own books.  Many Artifacts were destroyed, and many were hidden away in the darkest depths of Valdenwail and Dimmantle.  Some still circulate today, and many are recorded herein.
Corpus Arcanum
Artifacts have their own taxonomies which are simple to understand.  All Artifacts can be classed by their Arcane taxonomy (Old, Middle, New) and their physical form.  Thus, we would identify the Jagged Blade of Saint Abbadon as Middle, Weapon.  Though this approach is somewhat sterile and overly academic, it helps us to compile information in an orderly and useful manner.  In fact, it is this academic system of Artifact Taxonomy that provides us with information such as ratios; we know that 3 out of 17 Artifacts found will be a Middle, Weapon.  Statistics from the taxonomies prove it.  When statistical outliers are encountered in certain collections, the Archaeologist or Researcher will be alerted to the fact that further study of the collection is merited.
The present volume of this work details 434 known Artifacts of many different origins.  Each is described using the following Criteria;
Taxonomy
Date of Manufacture
Artificer or Culture
Physical Description
Known History
Special Properties
Current Location
Estimated Value
Hand of Saint Serra
Middle, Anatomical
Exhumed December 19, -388
Exhumed and amputated by Bishop Malvoy
The hand is a black and shriveled thing, as one would well expect from a 2000 year old carcass.  Though foul to look upon, it gives off a pleasant aroma that has defies a consistent description; it has been likened to the smell of roses, the smell of fresh baked bread, crushed ginger, venison gravy, and many other things besides.  The Author has not smelled this Artifact.
St. Serra was a Knight of the Order of Ulric who fought in the wars against Brogard the Cruel.  She was slain outside Dunstanmoore in
450.  She was interred in the church
s cemetery for heroes later in the year with all due honour.  In
388, Bishop Malvoy of St. Ulric
s Dunstanmoore claimed to have spoken to her in his dreams on 3 consecutive nights.  On the third morning, he had her exhumed, and it was noted that she had not decayed over the course of her 62 years of interment.  In fact, the odour from her casket was pleasing to all who bore witness.  Malvoy struck her hand from the rest of her body.  It was then taken into the church and displayed with various other Saints and Heroes for some time.
The hand has been used to cure all sorts of ailments throughout the years.  It is not capable of healing severe wounds, but is known to cure many diseases and their symptoms.  Mention of the Hand of Saint Serra comes often in all sorts of History books, both secular and otherwise.
The present location of the Hand is unknown.  It traveled to the Western Theatre in the 4th crusade, hanging around the neck of Sir Gamble Wiltthorne, Crusader of the Order of St. Sebald.  Wiltthorne never returned.
The Hand would be worth 3000-4500 Pieces of Silver in most markets, but might fetch more from the Clergy of St. Sebald (for it
s role in the 4th Crusade) or from the High Clergy of Saint Ulric, who is now the Custodian of St. Serra.
Sorrow Wind
New, Weapon
Created sometime between
28500 to
25500
Elder Artisan Dcuidules of Aredemis
This is best described as a thin-bladed longsword.  It is light and fast.  The blade is damasced, and is made up of layers of a deep violet-hued metal, and a deep red-hued metal.  The handle is wrapped in the reddish leather of some creature that has not been identified to date, and is likely some extinct or very rare lizard.  There is engraving on the blade in the Elder which says, as can best be interpreted,
I am Sorrow Wind, Bane of the Decadaaman, Deliverer of the Decaganets
The blade was certainly formed to be a weapon against something or someone called the Decadaaman, who are likely a band or species of Feral.  It is known that the Elders were exterminated by the Ferals, though long after the forging of this blade.  Though the blade must have an extensive history, being as old as it is, little is know about it.  This blade was uncovered by the inquisitor Maxamillian Dread during the First Inquisition, in 1003.  Dread used the blade as his own weapon until his own trial and hanging, in 1061.  The blade was then confiscated by the Inquisition, and presumably locked deep within Dimmantle.  However, a blade like it has been sighted numerous times in the centuries that followed.  Of note, an Inquisitor named Vhaeragorh of Patrilund had in his possession a blade identical to this one during his career in the Second Inquisition.  A painting of this Inquisitor hangs in the Imperial Palace in Waldheim, and the blade is seen resting on the lap of the sitting figure.  The painting is dated 1347.
Sorrow Wind is known to be indestructible.  It radiates strong magic to those who are sensitive to such things, but even those who are not acutely tuned into the arcane can sense a power within the thing.  The blade is eternally razor-sharp, and is presumably very deadly to some (all) Ferals.
The current location of Sorrow Wind is unknown.
If Sorrow Wind were to come to a reputable Auction House, it would certainly fetch over 30,000 Pieces of Silver.
Wolf Paw Badge
Old Magic, Curio
Crafted sometime between 1450-1650
Craftsman unknown.
This is a stone trinket 2
x 5
, by 3/8
thick.  There is a hole in the top of it, through which a leather cord has been fastened so that it may be worn as a necklace.  There is a crude by stylized engraving of a wolf paw track in the middle of the badge.
This trinket was uncovered in the Estate of one Wolf Eastwitch, in 1650.  It was found in a wooden tube along with a rough sketch of a rustic looking woman who bears a badge such as this one.  It has always been called a badge, as the woman in the sketch is reported as having the bearing of authority.  Unfortunately, the sketch has been lost to time.  The Eastwitch family of Waldheim is known to have a vast estate in a distant village which bears their name.  The badge may have been manufactured by the rustic people of that distant place.  The badge was sold to Lord
s University Researcher Jacob Woolson in 1749.
The Badge is known to generate a magical field around the wearer, offering slight protection from nearly all forms of attack.  Dr. Woolson had the Badge thoroughly investigated by the College of the Arcane at the University, and they confirm that the Badge offers
very slight
protection for the wearer, but that it had some properties that they could not identify.
The Badge went missing with Dr. Woolson in 1749, after his second expedition to the village of Eastwitch.
The Badge might fetch 300-600 Pieces of Silver at Auction, but might be worth more to any descendants of the Eastwitch line, if they were found.
'n*8
'n*8
Preface to the
Leslie Blackwell
Leslie Blackwell
Microsoft Word 8.0
NBGH
Preface to the
_PID_GUID
Microsoft Word Document
