New Rules
Languages
The rules found in the PHB for languages need some expanding.  This is detailed herein.
There are 4 major languages in this setting, and each has a number of dialects.  Most characters will start off with New Imperial as their native language, and will choose one dialect from the regional dialect list below.  It is possible to understand someone who speaks the same language, though a different dialect, but this requires a dialect check.
Learning a new language is a little different from the rules in the PHB.  Characters will have varying levels of competency in a given language which is determined by how many ranks they take in a given language.  This is much like the skill system, except that there are fewer checks with languages, and thus, the rules are a little different.  A character
s proficiency in a given language is based on how many ranks in that language he has.  The table below shows what level of competency that character has in a given language;
1 Rank:  Can understand the language and communicate very simple ideas, very slowly.  Has a
10 penalty to bluff, diplomacy and performance checks used against those that speak this language.
2 Ranks:  Understands the language well and can communicate simple ideas at a regular pace, or complicated ideas slowly.  Has a
4 penalty to bluff, diplomacy and performance checks made against those who speak this language)
3 Ranks:  Understands and speaks the language very well, and can communicate any thoughts or ideas as fast is in his native tongue.  Has a
2 penalty to bluff, diplomacy or performance checks used against those who speak this language.
4 Ranks:  Somewhat Literate in the language.  Has a
2 penalty to decipher script rolls for this language.
5 Ranks:  Mastery of the language; the character can speak the language as if it was his native language (no penalty to bluff or performance checks), and can understand even complicated literature of that language.
Dialects.  Each language has several dialects, and every character will have a home-dialect chosen which matches his home region.  Ranks of dialects are purchased with skill points exactly as ranks in languages.
1 Rank:  The Character can speak and understand the dialect very well and quickly.  Has a
2 penalty to Bluff, Diplomacy, Intimidate and Performance.
2 Ranks:  The character is perfectly proficient with the language and can pass as a local. No penalties to any relevant skills.
Synergy:  A character that has 5 or more ranks in Knowledge: Region for a given region will automatically count as having 1 rank in that region
s dialect.
Dialect Check:  When two characters attempt to communicate who speak the same language, but different dialects, a Dialect Check is required.  This is an INT based check with a DC of 10, which each character must pass.  The DC is modified by the difficulty of the message that is being conveyed.  For example, if they are trying to simply introduce themselves and make their names known to each other, that might be a
2 modifier to the DC.  If one is trying to tell the other the formula for a rare and magical potion, the DC modifier might be as high as +20.  This check can be attempted 3 times for each message/idea.  If it is failed after the third attempt, it is impossible for these two characters to understand each other for that particular missive.
The major languages of the setting include the following;
New Imperial.  This is the main language spoken by most inhabitants of the Empire.  There are many different dialects (detailed below), which might make it difficult for some people from some regions to understand people from other regions.  New Imperial is simply called
Imperial
by most people that speak it.  It is a descendant of Old Imperial with a mixture of Kellish added in.
Dialects:  City of Avitus, City of Havilah, City of Lysander, Eastwitch, Kingdom of Mantlethorn, Kingdom of Hiergallad, Republic of Isenwald, Republic of Dunstanmoore, Bishopric of St. Ignatius, Bishopric of St. Mairin, Dominion of St. Lucas, Wellenlund, Gablelund, Patrilund
Old Imperial.  This is the language that was spoken and written mostly before 750.  This language is still used by many academics and theological scholars.  This language has only a few dialects which are chronological dialects, rather than regional dialects.
Dialects:  Early Old Imperial, Middle Old Imperial, Late Old Imperial, Crusader
s Old Imperial.
Feral.  This is the language spoken by the Ferals and the Kells.  The Kellish dialect of this language is the oldest language spoken by men.  There are countless dialects of this language, but it is all rooted in the ancient Kell.
Dialects:  There are hundreds of dialects of this tongue.  The most common is Kellish, which is spoken by the Kells.
Elderspeech.  This is the language of the Elder Race.  There are only a handful of people in the world who can now speak this language, and few more that can read or write it.  It is the foundation of most magical writings in the modern day, but even so, most mages know only the bits of this language that pertain to their particular magical studies.  This language is pretty much only the domain of committed scholars.  This language is not chosen as a regular language (see Feats, below).
Angelic.  This is the language spoken by Angels and some Angelkin.  It is also found in many older documents, and some new.  This language is quite uncommon, and very difficult to master.  As such, it must be purchased with a Feat (see below).
Devilish.  This is the language spoken by the denizens of Hell.  It is also spoken by many Devilkin and a few very educated members of the Black Faith.  It is found in some old documents, but the Purgation of the 750
s was primarily focused on the destruction of documents with this language.  The language is very difficult to master, and as such, it must be purchased with a Feat (see below).
Demonic.  This is the language spoken by the denizens of the Abyss, and many demons that walk the Earth.  This language is found in the prolific writings of the many facets of the Black Faith.  It is difficult to understand and master, though not as complex as Angelic or Devilish.
Feats
First Estate Investiture
Prerequisites:  Knowledge: Religion (2 ranks), Cha 10
Benefits; The character is a senior clergy member of a prominent faith (such as an Abbot of a larger Canon or a Bishop of a smaller Canon), or a highly placed member of a Saintly Order or Society (such as an Investigator of the Order of the Key).  The character will have access to many resources in the campaign including money (hundreds of shillings), artifacts and assistance.  These resources will be adjudicated within the campaign.  The character also has many circumstance modifiers to social skill rolls; for example, if dealing with another Saintly person, the character might have a +4 circumstance bonus to a Bluff check.  Conversely, if dealing with a demon or a Black Faith member, they might have as much as a -4 circumstance bonus to a Gather Information check.
Second Estate Investiture
Prerequisites:  Chosen at first level
Benefits; The character is a noble of a wealthy and powerful family in Avilund, and has a title.  The character will be of low-ranking peerage, with a title such as Baron or Viscount.  The character will have access to a tremendous amount of resources in the campaign, including a large and comfortable estate, large amounts of money (thousands of shillings), and a small retinue, if desired.  The character also has circumstance bonuses to social skill checks involving other nobles which  might be as high as +4.  Conversely, the character will have negative circumstance bonuses when dealing with those opposed to the Second Estate, such as poorly treated serfs, some elected officials and various others.
Third Estate Investiture
Prerequisites: Profession: Merchant (2 ranks), Wis 14
Benefits: The character is a powerful Burgher from one of the larger towns, and belongs to a trading family.  The character will have access to a large amount of resources, including large amounts of money (hundreds of shillings), accommodations in any town in which the character
s family has dealings, a large and comfortable town house in the characters home city, a very small retinue, and access to privileged information about trade and local rumours from nearby settlements.  The character has a +2 competency bonus to the Profession: Merchant skill.
Military Investiture
Prerequisite: Profession: Solder (2 ranks), Cha 12
Benefits: The character has a military rank in an organized army, such as the Republican Army of Waldheim.  The rank is a middle rank such as Captain (2 ranks), Colonel (4 ranks) or Major (6 ranks).  The character will bear a badge of commission, which gives him legal authority to carry out military operations.  The character will have access to resources such as stores of weapons, large numbers of men-at-arms, and legitimate and illegitimate assistance from the military and higher-ranking officers.  The character has a +2 circumstance bonus to when dealing with military personnel, and also has a +2 competency bonus to the Profession: Soldier skill.
Expert Pugilist
Prerequisite: BAB +1
Exclusion: May not be chosen with any levels of the Monk CC.
Benefits:  The character has +1 to damage with unarmed attacks, and has a +1 Dodge bonus to AC vs. unarmed attacks.
Language: Elderspeech.
Prerequisites:  Language: Old Imperial (5 ranks), Kellish (5 ranks), INT 16
Benefits:  With this feat, the character is able to take ranks in Language: Elderspeech.  This feat does not give any ranks to this skill, and the skill must be purchased as usual.  The rules for language above are slightly different for the Elderspeech language.  Here is how mastery of this language works;
1 Rank; the character is able to decipher only simple Elderspeech writings.
2 Ranks:  The character is able to decipher Elderspeech writings and runes.
3 Ranks:  The character is able to decipher all Edlerspeech writings, runes and magical writings (if they are normally able to read magical writings).
4 Ranks:  The character is able to slowly converse in Elderspeech.
5 Ranks:  The character is able to converse well in Elderspeech.
Language: Angelic
Prerequisites: Religion (Primus Deus Fidelis) (5 ranks), Int 16, Cha 16
Benefits:  With this feat, the character is able to take ranks in Language: Angelic.  This feat, does not give any ranks to the skill, and the skill must be purchased as usual.  The rules for ranks are the same as for those for Language: Elderspeech, above.
Language: Devilish
Prerequisites: Religion (Black Faith) (5 ranks), Int 16, Cha 16.
Benefits:  With this feat, the character is able to take ranks in Language: Develish.  This feat, does not give any ranks to the skill, and the skill must be purchased as usual.  The rules for ranks are the same as for those for Language: Elderspeech, above.
Skills
Knowledge: Religion (Primus Deus Fidelis)
This skill replaces the standard Knowledge: Religion skill from the PHB. For all intents and purposes, it functions the same, but only for the Primus Deus Fidelis.  It does not offer the character any knowledge of the Black Faith.
Knowledge: Religion (Black Faith)
This skill replaces the standard Knowledge: Religion skill from the PHB. For all intents and purposes, it functions the same, but only for the Black Faith.  It does not offer the character any knowledge of the Primus Deus Fidelis.
Knowledge: Religion (Nature)
This skill is used for many of the religious rites that are known as
Old Magic
.  There are many places where people still practice this type of religion.  This religion is focused on the worship of natural forces and astronomy, and is wrongly labeled as
Black Faith
by much of Imperial society.
Profession: Medical Doctor (trained only)
This skill is used to fix seriously wounded and diseased characters.  See the optional rules later in this section for wounds, disease and healing.  This skill can also be used to earn money as any other professional skill.  The Heal skill is still used as usual.  This skill is used to treat wounds and ailments that the Heal skill cannot take care of.  The Heal skill should be thought of as first aid, or home-remedies that would be found throughout much of the world.  The Profession: Medical Doctor skill reflects formal training in the medical arts.  This skill has all the benefits of the Heal skill, except First Aid treatment.  This skill can also be used to heal some damage.  For every hour the Doctor spends with the patient, a check is made.  The patient is healed of check/5 HP
s, to a maximum of half his damage.  The other half must heal naturally.  Every check made depletes the Doctor
s supplies.
Synergy:  If you have 5 or more ranks in this Profession: Medical Doctor, you get a +2 synergy bonus to Heal checks.
Research.
This skill is used when characters want to dig up information from inanimate sources such as libraries, graveyards and such.  A single roll represents a day of research with a given medium in a given location (books, in a library, for example).  The DM will have a secret DC that is required for the character to find what he is looking for.  The Research skill check is modified by the resources the character has.  The DM will modify this roll in secret.  Typically, a small library will give a straight roll.  A large university library with an assistant helping might confer a +10 bonus to the roll.  Note that it might be impossible for the character to dig up the information in the given location, if the information is just not there (the DM only, knows this).
Synergy:  +2 for 5 ranks in Decipher Script, +2 for 5 ranks in relevant Knowledge skills.
Character Classes
Academic
This character class is essentially a very skilled, slightly magical character.  These are typically archaeologists and other academic-types that have studied a little bit of magic, but are more focused on their skills.  Their magic is
New Magic
Elder Magic
which they have learned through their studies, rather than formal training.  They learn, memorize and cast spells as wizards, but they may not specialize.
Alignment: Any
Hit Dice: d6
Class Skills
Appraise, Bluff, Concentration, Craft, Decipher Script, Diplomacy, Disable Device, Disguise, Forgery, Gather Information, Knowledge (any), Listen, Open Lock, Perform, Profession, Research, Search, Sense Motive, Sleight of Hand, Speak Language, Spellcraft, Spot.
Skill Points at 1st Level: (6+ Int  modifier) x 4.
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 6 + Int modifier.
Class Features
All of the following are class features for the Academic.
Weapon and Armour Proficiency:  The Academic is proficient with all simple weapons, plus the rapier.  They are proficient with all light armour, but not shields.
Spells: The Academic casts arcane spells exactly as a wizard.  He learns, prepares and casts exactly like a wizard, but has none of the other benefits of the wizard class (no familiar, no extra metamagic feats.
Spellbooks: The academic uses a spellbook exactly like a wizard.  He begins at first level with a spellbook with 4 cantrips, and 3 + Int modifier 1st level spells.  The Academic can add spells to this book exactly as a wizard, and furthermore, may add one spell into it for free every level.
Magic Items:  Academics can use magic items exactly as mages.
Lifelong Study:  A character that takes his first level in Academic has benefits with regards to skills in later levels.  Whenever the character takes a level in a class other than Academic, he may still take any of the following skill ranks as class-skills, even if they are not class-skills for the newly chosen character class;  Decipher Script, Forgery, Knowledge (any), Research, Speak Language, Spellcraft.
Level
Base Attack Bonus
Fort Save
Ref Save
Will Save
Spells/Day
Cantrips
Professional
This is the player-character class used for such things as merchants, politicians, investigators and the like.  This character is also based on the Rogue character class, but with some modifications.  There are no Sneak Attack bonuses or any other traditional
thief
abilities.  This character class excels at having huge bonuses on their skills, but is a little weak in combat.
Alignment: Any
Hit Dice: d6
Class Skills
All.
Skill Points at First Level: (8 + Int modifier) x 4.
Skill Points each Level: 8 + Int modifier.
Class Features
All of the following are class skills of the Professional.
Weapon and Armour Proficiency: Professionals can use all simple weapons, as well as the rapier.  They are proficient with light armour, but not shields.
Saving Throws:  The Professional is a character with a great deal of latitude.  For this reason, his saving throws are a little unusual.  This character chooses which save is his
strong
save and the other two then become
weak
saves.  Therefore, this character could be resilient like a fighter, quick like a rogue, or strong willed like a wizard.
Professional Focus Skills: At first level, this character chooses three Professional Focus Skills.  These can be any three skills.  The character may always take ranks in these skills as class-skills, even when taking a level in a class that may not choose these skills as class-skills.  Furthermore, the character gets a Professional Competency bonus of +2 to each of those three skills.
At levels 5, 10 and 15, the professional chooses another skill to make a Professional Focus Skill.  The +2 Professional Competency Bonus is added right away, but any
ranks that were chosen in this skill previously are not upgraded to full ranks.  The skill does become a class-skill for every class for this character from this time on, however.
Skill Mastery:  At levels 3, 6, and 9, the Professional may select one if it
s Professional Focus Skills to master.  The Professional may always take 10 in this skill, regardless of situation.
Bonus Feats: At levels 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 11, 14, 16, 17, 19, and 20, the Professional may take a bonus feat.  The bonus feat may be chosen from the following list; Acrobatic, Agile, Alertness, Animal Affinity, Athletic, Deceitful, Deft Hands, Diligent, Great Fortitude, Investigator, Iron Will, Leadership, Lightning Reflexes, Magical Aptitude, Negotiator, Nimble Fingers, Persuasive, Run, Skill Focus, Stealthy, Toughness, and Track.
Level
Base Attack Bonus
Weak Save
Weak Save
Strong Save
Special
Professional Focus Skills, Bonus Feat
Bonus Feat
Skill Mastery
Bonus Feat
New Focus
Skill Mastery
Bonus Feat
Bonus Feat
Skill Mastery
New Focus
Bonus Feat
New Focus
Bonus Feat
Bonus Feat
Bonus Feat
Bonus Feat
Bonus Feat
Optional Rules: Wounds, Infection, Diseases and Healing.
The world is a dangerous place, and even moreso for the adventurous.  The rules below reflect some of the inherent dangers of getting injured.  These rules are optional, and will be used at the discretion of the DM.
Wound Types
There are two types of wounds; Regular and Critical.  Regular wounds are those inflicted over the course of combat.  Critical wounds are inflicted when critical hits are scored, or a character
s HP
s drop below 0.  If these optional rules are followed, each player will be required to keep track of the number of each type of wound he receives.
Regular Wounds:  A character that takes a number of regular wounds has a chance of generating an infection.  This chance is known only by the DM, and is based upon the types of weapons inflicting the wounds, and the environment in which the wounds are sustained.  After an encounter, a single Fort Save is made for the regular wounds the character has sustained.  For every 3 regular wounds, the DC goes up by +1.  A typical scenario (a character injured by a longsword of no particular state of cleanliness, in a setting of no particular state of cleanliness or filthiness) would have to make a Fort save DC 10.  Only the DM knows what the DC is, though, and he may make the roll in secret.
Critical Wounds:  When a character takes a critical hit, the DM will determine what additional effect, beyond the regular damage, that the wound has.  This will typically be a point of ability damage, or a seriously bleeding wound (loosing 1 hp/round until treated).  The wounds also have a chance of causing infection, as with regular wounds, but each wound is rolled for, and the DC
s are typically 5 higher.
Recovery from Regular Wounds:  A character recovers from regular wounds as per the rules in the PHB.  This can be accelerated by use of the Heal Skill, or the Profession: Medical Doctor Skill.
Recovery from Critical Wounds:  A character does not recover from critical wounds as usual.  Before the character can naturally heal any damage from a critical wound, a Fort Save must be made.  The DC of the Fort save will typically be 10+
the damage inflicted by the wound (though the DM will know the actual DC).  If the wound caused ability damage, a Fort save must be made for this damage as well, with the same DC.  The Profession: Medical Doctor skill can be used to treat these injuries, just as regular damage is treated by the Heal skill.  The Heal skill cannot be used to treat these injuries, though it can be used to stop immediate bleeding and HP loss.
Infection: When a character has an infected wound, he will suffer some ability point damage (temporary) while the infection persists.  All infections from wounds have an incubation time of 1 day, and a Fort save must be made every subsequent day to avoid further ability point damage.  If two Fort saves are passed two days in a row, the infection is defeated, and the character will begin to recover ability point damage as normal on the third day.  Infection can also be treated by the Heal and Profession: Medical Doctor skills.  A character can have many infections, and in fact, numerous critical hits may lead to numerous infections.  Critical hits that cause ability point damage will cause the same ability to become damaged on subsequent days through infection.  While a character makes Fort saves for each infection that he has, only a limited number of Heal or Profession: Medical Doctor checks can be made.  Characters using those skills may treat as many infections in one patient as their Wisdom bonus (Heal) or Intelligence bonus (Profession: Medical Doctor).
hqx@
hqx@
hqx@
hqx@
hqx@
hqx@
hqx@
hqx@
kd^'
Ffa*
kd<-
Ff?0
kdFH
kdSJ
kd`L
kdmN
kdzP
kdb(
kd@.
urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags
City
urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags
PlaceName
urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags
PlaceType
urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags
place
New Rules
Leslie Blackwell
Blackwell, Les
Microsoft Office Word
NBGH
New Rules
Microsoft Office Word Document
