CasparExcerpted from An Account of The Lives of the Imperial Saints, by Dr. Archibald Beaumont. First Edition Published, 1698.

~

Saint Caspar was another of Severinius' early disciples, and a contemporary of Sebald, Dunstan and Ulric. It is well known and established that he was the tribe's priest in the practice of its barbaric pagan rituals. For most of his life he opposed the teachings of Severinius and Sebald, and vehemently cursed all who had abandoned the heresy he preached in favour of the Saintly Faith. Caspar remains an enigma, in that it is maintained that he never truly accepted the Saintly faith within his lifetime, and died a fierce opponent of it. However, his Canon teaches that it was his doubts and oppositions, and his strongly held convictions that prompted Saint Avitus to elevate this man to sainthood nonetheless. The Canon of Saint Caspar teaches that it takes formidable strength of character to take a stand based upon one's convictions in face of overwhelming opposition.

Caspar, due to his origins, is a confusing figure. He is considered to be the patron of martyrs by some, and patron of fools by others. He is said to be the one responsible for allowing men to continue to question and doubt all new theories and ideas, but he is also said to be the patron of the ignorant.

Composed mainly of hermit monks in the most remote reaches of the empire, Casparians are said to care little for the fate of men or of the church these days. Some consider Caspar to be a Hellion, rather than a Saint, or perhaps a corrupted saint. Certainly there is little doubt in the part that the Casparians played during the Cleansing. Few common men would consider Caspar a Heavenly Saint, though, reluctantly, most scholars still attribute this position to him. Regardless, since his following is made up of only a small number of hermit monks, few really care about his fate.

As a historical note, it is of great importance to note that Caspar's monks were primarily, and in the view of the current Scion, solely, responsible for the events known as the Cleansing. At the time, the followers of Caspar were many, and they preached against the proliferation of knowledge and the expansion of science. The Casparians sought to bring the empire back to its roots as a tribal society, and re-establish the rule of religion that Saint Caspar is said to have practised before Saint Avitus. Of course, while this did not come to pass, it is not easy to dismiss the bloodshed and war that was caused by them. But the story of The Cleansing is one best told in its proper place.

Today, Caspar's name is most often mentioned as a curse or as an insult. Foolishness, stubbornness, and the reluctance to accept change are all traits that are often cursed at with Caspar's name.
