I have seen no one today, but have had a reasonably eventful day despite my lonesome incarceration.

I awoke at…time is now lost completely to me. I am not sure of the time of day, nor the day itself. No sunlight penetrates this Archeronian Acropolis. I have explored Dunvegan House thoroughly, and have found all the windows one might expect in an Urban home of a well to do burgher, but there is no light beyond them. I thought that perhaps I had awoken at night, but at least a dozen hours have passed, and there is still no hint of light. I believe that even the streets of this place are completely covered over, and no light is permitted into the Valdenwail even upon the thoroughfares. There were rumours, heretical and controversial in the most severe nature, that one Scion in ages past was some form of Vampire, and had the entire place roofed over during a reign of hundreds of years. Though I cannot speak for the sanguineous character of the present Scion or any past, the streets are certainly covered, so that the Valdenwail is submerged in perpetual night.

Dunvegan House is four stories high, and was once well appointed. There are a score of bedrooms, numerous small turrets, two large entertaining rooms, one with an illuminated marble floor, a small theatre, several dining rooms, several kitchens, and numerous rooms besides. Though all the rooms were full of decorations and furnishings of a bygone opulence, covered and dusty though they were, it was the one room that had been robbed of its trappings that caught my attention, and provided a distraction from this protracted and trying service; the library. The library of Dunvegan House is a 2-story affair, and might have held ten thousand books in its day. There are great expanses of wall with nothing to adorn them, and as these are the only glabrous walls in the House, I am led to believe that they once displayed maps. The multitudinous bookshelves were all but bare. I began to wonder if the Repurgo Imperialis managed to find its way into these walls as well. There is really no indication in any History I have studied to suggest one thing or the other. Perhaps it did. Or perhaps my graceful and courteous hosts have removed any information from this place that they think might offend the sensibilities of their unenlightened guests.

At any rate, they did not remove everything. I did find one book in a dark corner shelf, and this discovery urged me to further exploring. After hours of filling the library with candles, and then poking candles into every dark shadow that remained, I found a very incongruous collection of a score of books. There is not one book in that collection newer than 500 years old, and this find would be classed as monumental in any part of Avitus. The books all display some evidence of their venerable age, but are well preserved for the most part. Given the amount of rain this country seems to experience, I was surprised to find only a little bit of black and green mould in some of the books. Certainly, this is a well constructed building, to admit none of the rain that assaults it so. In fact, whilst searching the library, I could hear the rain thrumming the roof high above, as the ceiling of the library must be the roof of the House.

The books are all written in Old Imperial, as one could well imagine. Again, however, they are interspersed with much language that is unknown to me, and several are in fact entirely obscure to me, being written in a language that not only can I not read, but cannot determine the language or even the alphabet base. Perhaps they are written in the apocryphal Angelic or Devilish or Demonic. I do not know. I have made copies of many of the characters and words, including the titles of the books herein.

I have now spent countless hours poring through these books, and I do not know where to begin describing what I have found. I shall save it for later. Though I have had a physically undemanding day, I am still weak from my journey and exposure, and still suffer a phegmatism that would have many patients bedridden. I am hungry, but earlier found another canvas sack of the same shoddy provisions that I encountered yesterday. The apples alone I ate, and the wine, again, was fantastic. It alone sustains me.
