I am camped at the gates of the Valdenwail, and won’t be admitted tonight. Such execrable hospitality I have never encountered, in even the most anomalous of bywaters.

The day began with a continuation of the doleful weather for which I have now come to associate with this dispiriting Ecclesiarchy. A deliberate march through the rolling hills brought me alternatively from the boggy swales, to the wind-blasted heaths of this woebegone moor. As the march progressed, I became aware that I was climbing higher and higher, and the nadirs of the rolling moor became tolerably moist the further I went, though the bitter wind became fiercer upon those unwelcoming zeniths.

I should say a thing about the road at this point. The road follows a very irregular course, and there are at many points, ancient junctions that lead to Sodor’s Door for all I know. It is only by the lasting and antediluvian virtue of the map which I copied from the Magnus Corpus Avitus that I was able to make my way to my final destination. The road is confounding, to be sure, though, and I had to ‘back track’ (as Janvermin would call it) many times. The road leading to the Valdenwail itself is unmistakable though; all of the secondary arteries which I found myself walking down soon proved to be of an even more senescent and disused nature, if a magnitude of age and neglect greater than that of the primary thoroughfare can be imagined. I confess that it makes my head swim to think of such ancient roads, once so large and well constructed, becoming so old and timeworn as to be all but forgotten. What once happened upon those Quondam Arteries of Empire?

One veritably stumbles into the Valdenwail, if it can be imagined. In the last league before the ancient acropolis, the approach becomes very difficult. The land becomes very stony and mountainous, with very little vegetation of any variety beyond nasty fungi, and the road at this portion of the journey has been carved out of the rock itself; it is much like a trough in the stone, and at many points, crumbling bulwarks rise above the edge of the trough, and stare down menacingly, like an old man with no teeth, at the weary traveler on that compromised road. This rocky flume has certainly been carved out of the now-mountainous country for a dual purpose; it allows some semblance of ease of navigation through what would now otherwise require the aid of a seasoned mountaineer, but it also provides a very compromised position for any invader that might come up this road. Certainly, the MCA makes reference to the ‘Upper Channel’, which is inaccessible to those on the ‘Lower Channel’, though the lower traveler is at the mercy of those upon the Upper.

At one junction in the Lower Channel, I did take my time to do some drawings. Here, the channel is some 100’ wide, and relatively flat and smooth. The walls to either side are carved straight up out of the mountain, and rise some 80-100’, so that I find myself standing in a magnificent concourse of illuminated stone, for the walls here are covered in friezes too numerous to count, and many as beautiful as the day they were chiselled from that unforgiving stone. Here, the elements are held at bay, somewhat, by a great precipice which rises hundreds of feet above the trough in its natural jagged fashion, and the salty winds blowing off the ocean have not smoothed the rock here as they have in many other parts of this journey. The flag stones themselves are a rich tapestry of history, and the walls are lined with statues of men and women and creatures that are forgotten by all save the most privileged and lore-stepped inhabitants of the Valdenwail.

The Channel at this point comes to an intersection; a secondary (by virtue of being smaller and heading back downhill at an obtuse angle) artery runs off the main course, so that the road here is somewhat ‘Y’ shaped. To the left, the road runs under a great arch which is suspended about 100’ above the descending road. The arch is fantastic itself; for starters, it is nearly anachronistic in its architectural quality. I would not have suspected such delicate and lasting arches from the primeval architects and builders of this ancient place. The arch forms a covered bridge, of a type; a stony rampart of many levels and convolutions spans this 100’ wide gap upon the arch, and this structure alone would be heralded as a great castle in any lands I have been, Waldheim included. When I got there, it was nearly eventide, though, and not one black window framed a hint of light. The sight of such a magnificent structure, so cleverly conceived, artfully constructed, graceful to behold, and seemingly impregnable, the sight of it in such a state of neglect and disuse made me so saturn that I nearly wept.

However, I knew that I was getting closer. The towers and battlements that rise above the carved-out trough became more frequent (though in no greater condition of repair or use) and much more impressive. The journey became much steeper as I went along as well, and I had to scramble over some debris at many points, presumably from depreciating battlements above me; by this time, it was quite dark and the rain had become quite fierce. A great howling was overhead as well, and occasionally a thunderous whistling (one really must hear it to agree that this description, while seemingly oxymoronic, is actually accurate) came down the Channel accompanied by stinging blasts of the salty, acrimonious gale.

Finally, though, at the peak of a steep climb, I found myself under another great archway, this one like a great two-pronged fork, with great towers rising well over 100’ above the archway which is suspended across the 80’ deep Channel. Steep bluffs rise to either side of the archway and the towers, and I could vaguely make out the dark arches of what must be the Upper Channel, where it runs as a tunnel through one rocky bluff, across a small arch to one tower, across the greater arch, through the other tower, across another small arch, and into another dark tunnel in the opposite bluff. But it was not this detail of the ancient architecture which caught my focus, for before me is the Valdenwail.

The assent to this peak is so high and steep that you cannot have any notion that such an amazing acropolis is just on the other side, waiting to surprise you like a bandit hiding behind a great fallen log. As you climb this last bit of this unhappy road, you are compelled to take in the twin towers, which I believe are named Gromhaufel and Zuirenhahst, so that the vista beyond the zenith is sprung like a trap. Add to this contrivance of the clever and ancient architects, the merciless winds which come straight off the ocean and up to this peak, racing for your exposed and tender flesh like coursing hounds for the hare, which force you to recoil and make your redoubt before you can again look out, and you find yourself at a loss of initiative, to be sure.

When I did finally recover from the elements, having bundled up tight and shrinking my head into my shoulders as well as I may, I looked out, and was robbed of breath. The Valdendwail was right there, not 200 yards down a gently sloping section of the trough, and it terminated the trough as sure as a spade through a snake. I shall try to describe what can be seen of the Valdenwail from this vantage;

To begin, this portion of the rocky land becomes more gentle; it is less than a mile from beneath the arch of the two towers to the cliff that drops off to the Sea which forms the Valdenwail’s most resolute southern boundary, and this expanse is mostly a benign plateau, for the most part free of the rugous mountains through which the traveler has just emerged. From the archway, there is a gentle slope downwards towards the Valdenwail which broadens from its span of about 100’ under the arch, to perhaps a mile at the foot of the bulwark of the Valdenwail. On either side of this gentle descent, the rocky eminence rises nearly straight up like a jagged wall. The plateau upon which the Valdenwail has stood for so many centuries is perhaps 7 miles from east to west, and the thickest parts of the sprawling and ancient acropolis might be as wide as 1 and one half miles from the southern cliff to the northern mountain which make its borders. In the middle, which is roughly where I find myself now, the Valdenwail is at its thinnest, being only perhaps 200 yards from bulwark and gate to the southern cliff, so that the unimaginably large place has the shape, roughly, of a kidney bean with a very narrow middle.

The plateau is also very lunate, curving away sharply from the narrow middle, so that I can see the face of the steep cliff and the great walls that sit upon it at the eastern- and western-most reaches, and how those walls have the seeming of something that has grown from the rock, rather than having been hewn from it, or stacked upon it, so long have they cohabitated together. Now that I think of it, if one was to imagine the seagull’s view of this place (though there are fewer of those than one would expect to find around a seaside castle of any size, let alone this one) I suppose it would look much like a gentleman’s bow-tie in shape.

The Valdenwail rises slightly towards its eastern and western extremities, and at its edges it has crept up the sides of the steep rock that borders the plateau, so that thousands of empty windows and archways, and hundreds of balconies and small towers, decorate the lower reaches of those impassable bluffs which frame the plateau. The Valdenwail chokes every square inch of the plateau, save for the open approach from the two towers to the main Gates below. The approach, here as with much of the Lower Channel, is bordered by the steep walls that have been hewn out of the stone, upon which the bulwarks and small towers of the Upper Channel sit, abandoned, watching with sightless eyes for erstwhile enemies.

After crossing about 200 yards down the yawning approach to the illimitable fortress-city, I find myself at the Gates of the Valdenwail. At this point, the great wall rises up before me, and stretches in its incongruous and convoluted manner, from one precipice to the other. At its lowest point, the wall must be 60’ or perhaps less, but well over 200’ in some of the highest portions of this mile and a half long battlement. There are towers every 100’ or so, and they are of a great variety of styles, shapes and sizes. One thing is consistent in the architecture of what I have seen of the Valdenwail so far, though; the ubiquitous greenish-grey stone from which it has been built. I have no doubt that this stone that has been quarried from the vast trench which runs for such a great distance approaching the acropolis; the walls of the Lower Channel are of this same sickly hue.

At the centre of the great wall is the unmistakable Portis Primus of the acropolis. A great tower over 200’ in height, and covered in smaller balconies and towers like an ancient tree covered with countless hoary burls and clinging lunate fungi, dominates the centre of the wall. At its base, an archway stands like a great letter ‘m’, with a pillar the size of which I have never encountered elsewhere, supporting the middle. The double-archway is over 100’ high, and to each side of the pillar, a 25’ wide opening marks the entrance to the Valdenwail. That this tower is old beyond reckoning is doubtless. The stone is covered in a thick and shaggy green moss higher than the apex of the double arch, and above that, it is so worn from centuries of this merciless weather as to be polished to a shine.

I should say at this point, that images in my mind of an Empire of great vastness and power did come flooding in. How much effort does it take to create such a structure as this, so prodigious and ornate? How many thousands of lives of men were spent to build this peerless expanse of towers and arches and battlements and countless and untold things unseen? As I approached the Gates, I had visions of thousands of men going through those Gates, hauling huge blocks of stone, as large as a small house in, while thousands poured out to gather more. I had visions, too, of vast armies of mounted men, with great siege machines rolling ponderously behind, coming out of those proud Gates like sunlight through the clouds. But when I got close enough in this gloom to fetch a better look at them, my visions were sundered. Though the Gate Tower is certainly ancient, counting it’s years by millennia, it has been modified relatively recently. It is important to say ‘relatively’, for the newer stones of which I speak were certainly laid hundreds of years ago, likely about 400 years ago, if I am any student of History. The huge double aperture of the Gate Tower has been sealed almost entirely shut; large stone blocks have obstructed those twin maws, like so many bricked-over windows to be found in Waldheim. However, at the base of the easterly opening, a large wooden door stands in a new archway, some 8’ wide and 12’ tall; large enough for any activities that this castle sees in its denouement.

There are three Armoured Guardians, nearly identical to those found at the Hedge Gate, standing in the great Tower Gate double arch which I have just described, and these three made the same supernatural contact with me as I approached. They seemed to expect me, and I sensed that I could approach the door. As I approached, one turned it’s armoured head to take me in. I could see no flesh beyond the slight opening of his full helmet, and though I could see my breath come as excited puffs of fog on this cold maritime eve, none issued forth from their helms.

The centre of the large door is adorned with a cast-iron ring about the size of a well tile, and it was only with great effort that I was able to swing it precariously back, and then strike the door with a resounding ‘thud’. The castle is so large that I couldn’t imagine that a doorman would be by any time soon, and, indeed, the sentinels seemed to suggest to me by way of their disquieting mental impressions, that I would have to wait for some time, and not strike the door again.

The next couple of hours were the worst I ever spent. I feared to stay too close to the door and the Sentinels, but feared to stray too far from it as well. When I became anxious, at times, and contemplated striking the door again, I was met with those same walls of resolute will that told me ‘wait, and do not strike that door again’. So I waited, and paced, and tried to stay out of the gaze of the sentinels and in sight of the door all at once, which was a geographical impossibility and a great source of anxiety for me.

But, at last, the door opened. Or rather, a small aperture, heretofore unnoticed by this envoy, opened up in the door; it was a smaller door about 2’ x 2’, and I was immediately warned of it’s opening by the pale flickering light that issued forth from it. I was startled, but gathered myself quickly, and stepped up as professionally as I am known to do, and began into my usual salutations, which were cut short before I had one syllable formed, by a very inelegant and loutish greeting from an unseen mouth;

“It is late! The Valdenwail will have no visitors this time of night!” and with that, the little door slammed shut.

Though the sentinels moved not an inch after this, I could feel their great Wills pressing down upon me, and knew that I could not press the issue further. I made a hasty and downcast retreat back up the gentle slope of the approach, and over the tempest-swept crest beneath the two towers, where I now write from.

I have a miserable camp tonight; everything I have is soaked thoroughly, and I don’t think I have been more crestfallen in my entire life. It has been a challenging journey to get here, and though the sight of this matchless fasthold was uplifting beyond my expectations, it has made my disappointment all the more difficult to bear. And just now, I have thought of poor Janvermin, who is doubtless ill beyond bearing, and full of questions about my whereabouts. I am long overdue.

But, there is one thing that makes it bearable. Just after setting up my simple camp, I journeyed to the crest again, and took another long look at that sprawling bastion, and though there are ten thousand black windows looking back at me, there are 4 yellow ones, and a little trail of smoke from a fire somewhere deep within the bowels of that impossibly huge acropolis.
