I can now name 162 Saints. I have endured the Consumption of St. Belarus, The Immolation of St. Donovan, and the Crucifixion of St. William. As one could well imagine, the Scion will not admit company on these most obscure, but surely, most holy of days.

I have been able to catch Numble most days. After my discovery in the library, and the subsequent discovery of my replenished, though spare, provisions and wood, I realized that Numble had every intention of sneaking in, day by day, and supplying me without the courtesy of salutations, let alone consideration for the furtherance of my appointed task. So, the next day, I sat in the kitchen where he left the previous provisions and wood. On this occasion, he brought his bundle only as far as the foyer.

The next day, I camped out in the foyer, and in a dark corner at that. Sure enough, he came sneaking in through the door after his long and noisy fumbling of keys.

“Good day, Numble!” I said, as I came springing out of my hiding. I quite surprised Mr. Numble, and he started into a bout of coughing that sounded something like boots prodding through a thick and sludgy bog. His knees knocked and creaked all the time, so that he produced a veritable cacophony of phlegmatic and rattling noises that I am sure rang through all the obsidian-black streets of this sunless acropolis. I smiled, probably for the first time in days.

“Or rather” I continued “Good night, or whatever time of day it is in this perdurable pitch!” By this time I had crossed the small foyer to the man, who was still in the middle of his violent, barking throes, and was unable to take my proffered hand, or to make any other gestures of greeting for that matter. It mattered not to me at this time, proper manners and conduct being all distant memories to me now.

“I see you are quite unwell today, my good man. I hope you will recover, and bring me to see the Scion before you expire, good sir!” I continued, through his hacking and gurgling and rattling and shaking. I folded my arms behind my back, smiled, and rocked back and forth on my heels, watching to see if the octogenarian would die or not. He did not.

He began by waving one finger at me in a very dismissive manner. He was nearly doubled over at this time, one hand on one knee, keeping him from falling over altogether. He cranked back his clicking, skeletal neck, and brought up his bony face over one shoulder to shoot a long, contemptuous look at me. Clearing his throat, he said “Yewl not go a step past this threshold on the Consumption of St. Belarus, you Saintless beggar!” He gave the sack of food and the small pile of sticks that he had dropped a languorous kick, and turned to leave.

“Good Sir!” I ejaculated. “Please! My apologies for an ungraceful salute, Sir. I wish only to carry out my duties, and to rid myself of your charge and dutiful care.” Yes, I had quite changed my posture and position. I now felt bad, mostly because the man who I had so satisfyingly surprised held my fate in my hands, but seeing the man kick at the pile of sticks so weakly made me pity him again.

He clucked his tongue, by way of answering me, and made his leave, locking me in again.

For the next couple of days it was the same, though he expected me, and gave me new observances to learn before quitting my company and locking me in. Tonight, or whenever, I decided that I would make my leave of this place, and look around a bit. For the first time in all my days, I am quite finished reading, having taken in all the words I know of the various books that I have found here. I confess that I know that I should make the best of my time incarcerated here, and make a complete study of these antiquated tomes, but I am now weary of Dunvegan House, and it’s unflagging dust and cobwebs. I have found a total of sixty eight windows in this great house, and sixty seven of them are nailed shut. The last is on the second floor, and it looks out from a small bedroom in which there are enough sheets that have escaped the moths, and I have made a rope of them, and plan to descend.
