An entry from the Journal of Brother Stephan Dunmorrow, Envoy of Prelate Calvin Van Miserly of St. Ignatius

Previous entry, Jan 9, 1747<br><br>
<span style=\"font-family: Old English Text MT; font-size: 13pt\">Jan 10, 1747</span>

I write this from outside the Gate of the Valdenwail. The diminutive door in the great double arch of the Gates has only recently slammed shut behind me, and the trio of Sentinels have reeled back their oppressive wills from within my head. I am over the crest, beneath the great fork-towers and arch under which I camped for days. I shall only camp one night here this time. I am on my way home, finally.
 
The day started as usual. I was wandering around in the candle light of Dunvegan House, though with a little more excitement than usual. Numble came in with his usual pomp, which is to say, none. I confronted him eagerly.
 
Numble was not carrying his usual sack of rotten food and faggot of soggy wood. He wore a pair of grey and hoary gloves which I have not seen him wearing before. He saw me, coughed and choked and roiled and creaked and groaned for some time, and then addressed me.
 
“You have a message from the Prelate of Saint Ignatius, you say?” he inquired. I nodded. He likes short answers, and I decided to spare my pomp for those that matter and who are more affected than insulted by it, if such people there are in this place. “Follow” he said, and he lit another candle and made his way out the door. He stopped on the doorstep outside, and turned back in, to see that I was following. That is the nicest gesture that he ever made towards me.
 
Follow I did. The first thing I noticed was the absence of the Sentinel at my doorstep. I have not thought on it for quite some time, and I must confess that I am not sure if he left days or months after my roguish journey.
 
Numble lead me through miles of veiled street, through avenues even broader than before, and through great gates in thick walls. Back through time we seemed to journey; the architecture became more simple and prodigious as we journeyed, and the choking dustiness seemed to hit a peak somewhere partway through that twilight journey. At a couple points, we passed by streets down which I could see daylight shining, and at one point, we even walked through an open-air garden. There was a great opening above, and though it dripped at its edges from a recent rain, the sun was shining through as bright as I have seen it in this Ecclesiarchy. Though the journey was filled with greater wonders and mysteries, and seemed to grow more optimistic as we proceeded, I should add that we did not encounter another soul on that journey, nor even heard or saw a sign of one.
 
Finally, we arrived at a great manor home, similar to Dunvegan House in its opulence and size. It was covered by the same road-roof as the rest of the Valdenwail, but there were torches burning at all corners of the place, and several lights on inside. The sight of bright light in those windows was so encouraging that I gave a veritable laugh, and straightened my weatherworn jacket, and propped my soiled hat. I noticed that standing in one curtain was a silhouette of a man, with his hand over his eyes, likely straining to see into the darkness through the panes of glass. He must have seen us, for as we approached, he turned away.
 
I should boast that I knew I would not meet the Scion, as soon as we approached the main door to this House (Grimwood House, Numble called it). There were no Sentinels around, and I am sure that a meeting with Him would have been preceded by a scrutiny of those voiceless devils-in-bronze. There was none.
 
Numble rattled right up to the door, rapped it three times, and withdrew, hanging his head low as he did. My heart was racing, and I clutched the sealed letter in my hand tightly as I heard someone deftly turn a half dozen latches and bolts. The door opened, and though the light that issued forth immediately blinded me, I soon found that I was standing face to face with a man.
 
The man was about my height, being not too tall, and was slender, though not as slender as this messenger in my emaciated condition such as it is now. He wore a yellow gown with no markings at all. The man had a face like a yellow stone that has been polished by aeons of tides washing over it. His skin was taught and flawless, though not the hue of those I am used to. He had great bright blue eyes, and for hair, a single lock issuing forth from a knot at the upper occipital region of his skull, and this was a venerable silver white. I cannot guess that man’s age, but if I were forced to put some borders around his age, I should say between twenty and two hundred.
 
He looked young, except for the silver hair, though the look in his eyes was so full of wisdom that I thought he carried a thousand years behind them. I could not look him in the eye for long. He wore an expression as gentle and benign as I can imagine, though he looked somewhat troubled. It was he who spoke first.
 
“I am Doctor Gideon. You are Envoy Dunmorrow, and I understand you have been waiting to carry out your charge for quite some time.” His voice was deep and level and carried the most intoned understanding I have encountered in a Human voice. “You should know that we have not kept you waiting for months on end for the purpose of testing your resolve” 
 
I was curious that he mentioned ‘testing’. Since I have awakened from my madness, I have long contemplated this very issue of ‘testing’. I wondered if the inhabitants of this place were testing me by placing books in Dunvegan House to see if I would take the time to read them and study them. I wondered if the single open window was left to see if I would make a thorough examination of the place, and also to see if I would take the chance of an exploration of the Valdenwail. Perhaps they left the door to the battlements open to see if I would take it. Perhaps it has all been a test, and though I have not made a flawless effort, having descended most ashamedly into madness for some time, I have not failed, for here I am talking with Doctor Gideon.
 
I shall make a quick note about what I knew of the Doctor. I half expected to meet him. If there are any rumours and gossip coming out of the Valdenwail, it all centres around this enigmatic paragon. He is the personal physician to the Scion, and also his most trusted advisor. He is the only resident of the Valdenwail that comes to the Conclave that is accessible, and it is this one man who all the Upper Clergy, from Bishops to Prelates, of nearly every Saint at Conclave, attempt to engage and sway. Having met him in his own home, I can now see what a wise choice the Scion has made in this man. As I have said, he is a physical dubiety, appearing so old and young at once. But his manner and bearing would make the most puissant diplomat feel like a stammering lout, though he is full of such understanding that none could feel wronged by any conversation with the man.
 
And, he answers nothing.
 
He continued in his explanation. “You must understand that this place, the Valdenwail, is the very last refuge of Ceremony and Tradition. We are the last guardians of our beleaguered Faith, and though many of our Observances may seem antiquated, if not contrived, to outsiders, each one is as important as Conclave. We do not waver in our Venerations, as dictated by the Canonical Calendar, for any event or person, though fire may fall from the sky, or kings show up at our gates.” He smiled a troubled but understanding smile, and I was disarmed. I made a stammering dismissal of any charges of ill treatment, and thanked him a dozen times for a dozen small courtesies, and finally we got to the business at hand.
 
“Good Sir” I began. I was about to deliver my prepared oration, when I was cut off, again, from doing so. No one in this Ecclesiarchy seems interested in hearing my carefully prepared allocution. The Doctor smiled, and brought his hands up, to make the same gesture that parents use to tell their children to ‘keep it down’.
 
“I know you have come to deliver a message from the Seat of your Canon, to the Scion, and likely to the Scion and no other. I am loath to tell you that I must put a terrible decision before you; to deliver the message to me, or to none. None may hold host with the Scion in this Age, I regretfully say to you. I am the Scion’s most trusted assistant, however, and I swear to you that I will deliver this message, swiftly and without compromising the most sanctimonious seal found thereupon. You can trust to me, or bring your message back undelivered.” He smiled. I placed the letter in his hand. He gracefully bowed, and placed it in his robe most carefully.
 
The hospitality of Grimwood House was a great improvement over Dunvegan House. I was brought in and fed a hearty though plain meal of fresh breads and cheese, and once again, fantastic wine. We sat sipping the blood-warming wine, while he listened to me talk about the outside world. He was hungry for any information that I could provide, and I confess that I let slip a good many rumours and privileged information that I should not have. The man has a way of listening to your words before you even speak them, and he seems to steer my words through some guile or strength of will that I cannot understand. He said nothing for several hours, while I ran on, unchecked, about affairs abroad.

Now that I am sitting here beneath the weather-beaten arch of the fork towers, I realize that perhaps my tongue was loosened with several tools; a long and lonesome incarceration with no one to converse with, bottles of excellent wine, a hearty meal after a long fast. These are excellent tools with which to get one to speak. Though I feel like I may have been falsely played, and harshly used, I still can’t help but feel a great exhilaration at being free of this letter, free of the timeless walls and unceasing darkness and solitary incarceration. Though the rain is falling upon me, and the wind once again stabbing at me, and though I have a long and perilous journey ahead of me, the worst is over, and I am now bound for home.
