I have been exploring, and nearly forfeited my life for it. I will not be exploring again, as I have gained one doorman, of a stamp, to keep an unsleeping eye upon me.

After I had slept, and woke at a nebulous time, I mustered my courage to go exploring in the Valdenwail. I packed up my back pack with what little food I have been able to keep, several candles, and one bottle of the excellent wine of this place (I have had a couple of bottles come my way with antediluvian labels upon them which read “Valdenholme Vineyard” with dates varying from 888 to 1207, though surely they did not contain the original contents).

I pried open the second floor window, and made the rope fast to the large bed, and made my descent. Again, I met Stygian blackness on the street below, but I could tell by the feel beneath my feet that I was upon ancient and undisturbed cobbles. I had one candle alight, and it cast enough light for me to follow one wall on my right, though I could not see anything to my left, nor a roof above me. Clearly, though, the street had but a single layer of roof above; I could clearly hear the rain sounding off above me. It made a sound that hinted to me that the roof might be covered with slates.

I followed the grey stone wall on the right for quite some time. The wall is made of enormous blocks, the smallest of which having no less than four square feet of face. Though there is some mould at the base of it, there is almost no other vegetation besides. The streets are a little dusty, though for the most part free of debris. I should add that the smell of the place was not as musty as I would have expected, but rather, like dry earth after a long drought.

For several hundred paces did I follow that grey monolithic Dunvegan House to my right. At a few points in the journey, I happened upon great stone pillars that came upon me like ghosts, from the darkness to my left, as I wandered cautiously along. They were all meticulously cut from blocks six feet exactly on all sides, and stacked higher than my candle would illuminate (I could see the bottom half of the fourth block). These blocks, though precisely carved and placed, lack the illuminated friezes that adorn much of the older masonry I have encountered in the Valdenwail, which makes me think that they are much newer additions to the place. Perhaps these are the columns which support the newer thoroughfare-ceilings of which I was told. I cannot see to the top of them, so I cannot say for sure.

Now, it is foolish to go about exploring in just about any place without some way to keep track of where you have been, and the Valdenwail is perhaps the worst place of all for such a journey. But as I have said, I have found scores of candles in Dunvegan House, and I have borrowed them for the purpose of finding my way back. At each intersection that I came to, I lit a new candle and left it burning there. Of course, I have lit the largest candles first, and I knew that I had about 6 hours, no more, to spend at large in the Valdenwail.

I was unable to follow a straight course through that dateless darkness for more than a few hundred paces, so labyrinthine is the Valdenwail. The place is very much a covered city. Though I walk on what are certainly streets, every avenue is covered entirely by the slate roof, supported by the huge pillars.

The streets are of ancient cobbles, and there are elevated walking stones to the sides of the streets for those afoot, while horses and conveyances would be able to rumble past at any speed down the middle. Very few streets in Waldheim are constructed such, but here, even the smallest of alleys down which I have lost myself, I found this same sound and considerate construction. There are portcullised holes in the streets that most certainly lead to a sewer network of some variety. It makes my head swim to think of the darkness-under-darkness of a sewer-realm which may exist beneath this enduring blackness. It is a further marvel to me that this most antiquated acropolis would have a peerless infrastructure to match its peerless prodigious volume. But, if I were to imagine this place full of the teeming peoples it could certainly accommodate, I should not be surprised that the architects of this place have included such details.

For the most part, what I have seen of the Valdenwail is a multitude of large row-houses, at least 3 stories tall, perhaps much taller in places (I can use the sound of the rain above to roughly estimate heights). They are sound, and most are covered in elegant details and convoluted friezes. They are each a marvel, and any one of them would be the pride of any street in Waldheim, but here, where stunning, enduring beauty is the status quo, they are legion.

As I passed the doors of the larger buildings, some would remind me of the door to Dunvegan House, and I got to thinking, “How many other messengers are entombed behind those taciturn doors, their charge failed, their bones and undelivered messages now so much dust upon the lonely floor?”. This descended me into a melancholy. The thought of dying of protracted incarceration in the Valdenwail is too much to bear. The situation is all the more woeful, as this is a prison of matchless historical significance, and under any other circumstances, I, a Distinguished Graduate of the Seminary of St. Ignatius, should think I would have loved to retire to such a place and spend all my days studying the limitless statuary, friezes, frescoes, tapestries, and other objects too numerous in variety and quantity to name herein, until I pass. Surely, this is the Antiquarian’s Dream, to be trapped in the very Heart of the Empire of Men, with nothing but time and wits. And here I am, spending my time wandering aimlessly, taking in the atramentous spectacle like a byway farmer wandering the streets of Waldheim. For shame. I feel as though I have been tested…

My mood changed, though. I rounded one corner, and down a long alley, I espied a pale light being cast upon the cobbles. I hurried towards the light, and was rewarded when I arrived at it with a slight breeze upon my face, and the light of day, shrouded by cloud though it was, coming from a broad and slit-like rend in that steadfast darkness, somewhere very high up; I had to crane my neck upwards to take it in.

It was quite some time before my eyes adjusted, so long had it been since I had seen so much light. While I squinted and worked my lids, my ears took in the sound of the ocean crashing against the rocks, somewhere very far off. The smell of the sea was once again strong in my nares, and it filled me with strength, to again smell something organic, something not dust-covered and forgotten. There was also a low moaning, and though it was disconcerting at first, it turned out to be the wind blowing down from that opening, and into the Valdenwail, where it sang with many voices as it sped down many avenues and alleyways, shrinking as it did so. I was so refreshed to have my senses filled that the horror of my incarceration was nearly forgotten. I invoked the name of Saint Lorrigan at that time; my escape from the imperishable dusty darkness seeming an allegory to his living escape from his own unfounded grave.

By this time, I had adjusted my eyes, and took in the sight. I stood at the base of a most immutable bulwark. The blocks here were ten feet long and five feet high, and they stretched as far to the left and right as I could see. I must have been standing on some rim-road which ran along the outer, seaward wall of the Valdenwail. It was the longest bit of road I have seen in this maze of hoary stone. It was about sixty feet high, which I estimated by way of counting blocks, and at first, seemingly insurmountable. The light issued forth from an opening, presumably along the battlements at which I stood at the base of, and the opening was only forty to fifty feet wide, and then the ubiquitous darkness continued. But looking to my right and left, and screwing up my face so as to see a little farther, I noticed similar patches of light at great distances from me in either direction.

Making for the light to my left, I noticed that the streets here were not so dry and dusty. Rather, they had a very earthy smell to them, and were covered in slightly phosphorescent fungus that, when seen while standing in the now-punctuated darkness, gave off enough light to provide an outline of the ancient stone around me. It was fantastic, though spectral, and I confess that I moved along with some concern that I was walking towards some proverbial light, making my Transition through the Ghostly Realm. But then, I have not been eating or sleeping well of late, have I?

Before I came to the light, having traveled some hundred and fifty paces, I found an opening to my right – a very large archway with an open door. I peeked my head inside, and found a capacious stairway leading up. The stairs were a spiral, and ten men could easily have marched shoulder to shoulder up them. They were solid stone the entire way up, even though my circuitous journey brought me many times about; such is the architecture of the Valdenwail. At length, I climbed the last broad stair, and found myself on a slippery, mossy landing, facing another large and unobstructed archway, and beyond, the pale grey of the ceiling of the world.

I was even more elated as I crossed that threshold, and felt the sting of the full wind on my face, it’s autumnal chill waking me from a dream, it’s saltiness like a breath taken after a long plunge. I should say it was nearly eventide, of what day I am not sure. The sun was a pale circle of lighter grey in the darker clouds. The Harbour of the Valdenwail was before me, and the violent sea beyond it was the same colour and temper as the sky, so grey and cold and roiling were they both.

The Harbour is perfect. It is a circle perhaps two miles in radius, with the Valdenwail making up one half of its circumference, and a menacing and toothy-looking craggy ridge the other. There is a small aperture in that natural wall, perhaps one hundred yards high (though it is tough to tell at this distance, and I have proven myself a most terrible judge of measurement), opposite the Valdenwail, through which a couple large ships might sail. Even from this distance, I can see that a great citadel sits atop this natural arch, so that no ship could pass unwelcome into that Harbour.

Looking down over the substantial battlements, I could take in the serenity of the Harbour below. Though the ocean raged beyond the wall, the Harbour was calm. It must be horribly and unfathomably deep, so black are those still waters. The natural precipice upon which the Valdenwail sits rises at least one hundred yards from the face of the water, and nearly straight up, until the huge blocks of the outer wall are found. At the base of this escarpment, growing out of the sea like hundreds of gnarly and broken teeth, are smaller stone protrusions; the remnants of a slowly receding cliff. They are worn to every shape thinkable, and make old things look new, so moss-covered and weather-eaten are they. And yet, upon most of them are small buildings. Small only because of my great distance from them, and their relative scale beside the vast walls of the Valdenwail. Surely, those are small fortresses upon those stalagmites of the Harbour, and they are as mossy as the geologically uncertain protrusions upon which they sit. Many have vast and nearly impossible arches spanning the distance between them, so that many comprise small networks between themselves with these graceful bridges. And still many others have only partial bridges which lead out over open water. Time does pass, even here.

I have espied at least three arches that lead from some of the closer protrusions, upon which sit larger and taller fortresses; arches that lead to the cliff face upon which the Valdenwail sits. There are bridges upon them that lead to the belly of this behemolithic acropolis, and, presumably, tunnels commencing therefrom, which worm their way up, unseen and unremembered.

I was shaking my head, trying to take it all in. I was again lost in the complexity and the vastness of the Valdenwail, and was again feeling the sorrow of such a monument of Man’s Industry remaining all but vacant for centuries unnumbered. I had already taken for granted the feeling of the open air, and the quality of the shrouded light of the sun, when it was all sundered again. As I leaned precariously over the bulwark, I heard a door open far to my left, at the opposite end of the open portion of the battlement from which I emerged. I could not see the origin of that bone-chilling noise, poised such as I was, with a great stone obstacle between I and it, and I made no effort at first to change this, so numb with fright was I. I heard one great armoured footfall, and knew what I would see coming out of that black portal to my left. I righted myself, and as my face slid past the stone battlement, the mailed sentinel that I was expecting did come into view by inches. He was perhaps forty feet away from me, and walking ponderously forward. His mail was similar to the other sentinels I have seen; it was bronze, and every square inch was covered in detail. This armour was quite green with moss, though, and the legs the more so. It carried a great shield and a great maul, also bronze, also detailed, mossy and green. And it wielded the same oppressive will of his fellows.

I remember quickly thinking “One open door in the whole decrepit City, and ... stupid Stephan! Of course! There are no open doors in this place, unless they are opened apurpose. That thing had come that way, and must have been coming back! No more open doors for me, thank you!”.

I knew at once that he viewed and labelled me as a intruder, and that he was coming to apprehend me. I made a mental plea, but it was met with the same obstinate wall of will. There was nothing for it but to run. Surely, I thought, no one in such armour would catch one as unencumbered as I.

I headed back to the black opening to the right, and back down the wide stone steps as fast as I could. In fact, I went faster than I could, and I went for a nasty tumble down several steps after slipping on some of the mossy growth that has accumulated in this part of the Valdenwail. I struck my head, and blacked out...

One could well imagine my horror upon waking, alone in the dark, a fire in my head, and the taste of blood in my mouth. It was very dark; pitch I though. But, it just took my eyes some time to adjust. There was the same pale light above me that I had just been making my escape in. And just then I heard the sound of heavily armoured feet above me, perhaps a few steps away. I had not been out as long as I thought, though in those few short seconds I lived a long story of horror that has probably cost me a year of my allotted time in this World. I scrambled to my feet, and made my way more cautiously down those steps, descending into perfect darkness as I did so. It was a long way down, before I hit, unexpectedly, awkwardly, and with another ungraceful fall, the bottom. This time, my chin hit the unyielding stone, and several of my teeth are chipped for it.

This, still, did not stop me. Laying prostrate in the bottom of the stairs, I was facing the opening, and saw that same pale light that brought me here in the first place, beyond the threshold. I was back at street level, and though what little light there was I would soon loose, it gave me a bearing. I got up, dashed out into the street, and turned right. I made one quick listen in the archway, and heard the ponderous report from the bronze feet. It had come only about half way down the stair.

I dashed off, heading towards the next bit of open battlement, which should have been a couple hundred yards away. It was further, and as I proceeded along, I slowed my pace, and let my mind work again. So full of fright I was, that I had made a wrong turn after leaving the archway without thinking, and had just now run hundreds of yards THE WRONG DIRECTION! Certainly, I did not pay enough attention to Janvermin and his craft.

I knew that to try and find my path back by any other direction from that which I just came would be futile. There are absolutely no parallel or straight avenues in the Valdenwail, and though logic would dictate that I could head into the darkness of the Valdenwail for a block, and the head to the left, it would not service my cause in this maze. There was nothing to do but run back, and hopefully pass the archway a second time, before the Sentinel made the street.

I ran as fast as I ever have, for exactly four paces. My fourth pace found my foot perched precariously along the edge of an uncommonly large and protruding cobblestone, and I immediately doubled over at the ankle, and subsequently found myself sprawled out on the stone for the third time in less than a minute or so. I landed mostly on my left wrist, and now have a broken wrist to add to my list of injuries as well.

I thought about giving up, and letting the thing come to me, but just then I had, for the first time in my young life, a Sign. As I have mentioned, the stones in this long avenue are covered in a glowing moss which provides some little light. As I lay there, my head lolling to the side, my hope diminishing as my pain grew in my limbs, I looked to my right, where now was a row of the large stone houses, opposite the great bulwark to my left. All had a pale glow from the lichen, but one wall had a cluster of brighter, greenish-yellow lichens that was a perfect replica of Caanan’s Cross. I cursed. I lolled my head to the left, and there, in a large sconce in the bulwark, was a likeness of St. Caanan, glowing like a lantern, though I could see no lichen upon his loathsome likeness. I cursed and spat.

“Not today, Herald of Woe!” I uttered beneath my breath. “I will not provide your entertainment today!” And I was up and on my way, hobbling as best as I could, back towards whatever fate awaited me at the stair arch.

My defiance of Caanan might have been enough, but just barely. As I was hobbling past the black doorway, the armoured form stepped from it like a spectre, one hand outstretched for me. It could not have missed me by more than an inch. I could feel it’s great will demanding me to stop, but I was able to put it out of my mind, and continue on.

Though I was traveling only about half as fast as a man can briskly walk, it was fast enough to put distance between me and the sentinel. I made my way back to the first opening in the bulwark that I had found, and plunged into the darkness of the streets of the Valdenwail. I was heading down the alleyway that brought me here, but to my horror, I noticed that in my excitement, I had not placed a candle at the next intersection, after my discovery of the light. This was another mistake that good Janvermin would have never permitted.

I came to a pitch black intersection, the pale light now distant behind me. I could hear the unremitting pace of the Sentinel as it lumbered along. At the end of the long alley, I could see the silhouette of the thing as it rounded the corner. I had some time to figure out which way I had come. I walked a few blind paces into the darkness, clenching my teeth in my bloody mouth half in pain, half in anticipation of another fall and more pain. I was lucky. I found myself on some flat ground, on one of the wider and more worn of the thoroughfares of the Valdenwail. I had no candle at this point, and was entering the heart of obsidian blackness, my hands outstretched, my left leg limping along behind me, blood trickling down the back of my throat. My eyes must have been as wide as saucers, so wanting for light was I.

And I found it. As I hobbled along, I did finally notice a light off to my left. It was very distant, and I headed towards it gingerly. I did in fact find one of my candles, and though the Sentinel had made ground on me whilst I clamoured in the darkness, I was easily able to outpace the thing back to my appointed accommodations. I was then met with my next challenge.

Though I am not known as a man who does not think things through (in fact, I have been accused of quite the opposite in my time), I did leave a large, and insurmountable problem for myself in the poor laying of this plan for adventure. As I approached the last candle, now burnt nearly to the stone of the street outside of Dunvegan House (a place, by all that is madness, I was elated to see again), I noticed the dangling rope of sheets hanging by the light of the candle, right where I left it. Now, I am a lean man, and have had many long days toiling at the more bodily tasks that the Seminary demanded of me during my Investiture. But I am by no means strong under the best of circumstances. Whether I could have climbed that rope in perfect health, I will never know. I can say with certainty that I was unable to climb it after my starving incarceration, and with a sprained ankle and broken wrist, though Ignatius knows that I tried. I tried, in fact, until I was in tears with pain and desperation. I think I actually tried to use my teeth to replace my lame hand at one point, for the last thing I saw by the light of the dying candle outside the prison I was so desperately trying to enter again, was a very bloody bed sheet.

I was spared only by my ears. I took a moment to pause, and catch my breath, and I heard a resounding clicking and whooping coming towards me from somewhere within the reticent blackness of the Valdenwail. Numble. I blew out the candle, and waited and listened.

Numble it was, sure enough. I heard him get nearer and nearer, and before long I saw the light of the small candle that he bore before him. He passed like a ghost, albeit a rambling and noisy ghost that looks capable of dying a second death at any moment. At the end of the street upon which I hid, and I heard him fumble with his mess of keys. He made entry into the House. I paused, then followed in behind him, doing the best I could to be quiet, though I hobbled like a war veteran. I managed to find a chair in the corner of the parlour that was somewhat obfuscated, and pretended to sleep. He passed back out of the House, seemingly none-the-wiser.

Just as I thought I was clear of danger, I heard the diligent lumbering of the Sentinel as it walked up to the entrance of Dunvegan House, just as Numble was leaving. Surely the two saw each other, and indeed, Numble stayed for quite some time on that porch, undoubtedly having an unnatural conversation in the voiceless manner of those terrible Sentinels. Numble finally let out a gurgling laugh, and clicked off into the lightless labyrinth.

The Sentinel is still standing on that porch as I write this, and has not moved a finger.
