I spent a horrible night, and will spend another likewise. Owing partly to my excitement at finally reaching the legendary Valdenwail, partly to my aches from a perilous journey, and partly from my limitless discomfort in what little shelter I could find from the tempest which raged on through the night, I slept not a wink. Shortly before sunrise, the rage of the elements withered to a dull and monotonous thudding of heavy rain, and little wind. Though I was soaked through and shivering from head to toe, I packed up, and perched myself at the crest beneath the arch of the two towers, and watched the Gates of the Valdenwail with an absent determination. I crouched like an animal, propped half against one wall of the trough, and moved not an inch for countless hours (my watch is still not working, and is now so hopelessly waterlogged that it will need the benefit of a visit to the watchmaker in Waldheim before it will keep time again). Though I moved not a bit of my frame, my eyes moved constantly from looking south at the Gates, to the east where I expected the sun to rise.

Eventually, what passes for a sunrise in this dismal Ecclesiarchy did perchance to present itself. It was a long and drawn out affair, and agonizing for the expectant viewer. I supposed that the sun would bring some warmth to my bones, and open the Gates for me, and so I watched expectantly, waiting anxiously for those warming rays. They never came. A pale grey light formed in the east, and it has not brightened all day. The clouds rolled slowly across the skies, from east to west, and though the sun did creep up over the mountains, it has not burnt its way through those obstructing clouds, and has delivered little light and no warmth to this land. I think these stones would abhor a condition of warmth and sun.

At any rate, when the sun was at a position in the sky behind the clouds that I took to indicate 8 bells, I again made my approach to the double arch of the Gates. The same three sentinels were still there in the same spot I left them last night, the time and rain seeming to have no effect upon their unflinching disposition. I was sure that I was going to receive nothing better than a scurrilous greeting from the brusque and unseen doorman from the night before, but I received less than that. As I approached, I could feel the weight of the Will of those sentinels upon me, and I knew that it was not yet time to ring the oversized knocker. I slowed my approach, and turned back.

For several hours, I tread the path from the crest beneath the two towers, to the Gates of the Valdenwail, and upon each approach, I was repelled by the will of the Sentinels. I watched that pale obstructed glow arc slowly up, and then quickly down. Long after the faded lithium of the concealed sun was past its zenith, and fast approaching the peaks of the mountains to the west, I steeled myself, and approached the relatively diminutive wooden door of the Gates. This time, too, the Will of the sentinels bore down upon me, but I was determined to do my job, and though I struggled with my own fears and their unspoken threats, I did finally reach that enormous knocker, and my cold-numbed hands managed to rock it back a few inches, which was enough for it to resound as clearly as it had last night. Upon the report from this ludicrous implement of greeting, all three of the sentinels turned slightly to face me, and their Wills pressing down upon me were like a black avalanche. But, I stayed my position, and defiantly faced the small portal in the door beneath the knocker from which I expected my unfriendly greeting.

After about an hour of standing there, shifting my weight and courage uncomfortably, the small portal in the door did open suddenly. It is only at about chest height, and I had to bend down to look into it to face my greeter. My greeter was doing likewise, and was clearly unhappy to be doing so. There was an old face on the other side of the door, and it showed perhaps 50 years, perhaps 100, it was difficult to tell. It was not likely a pretty face in its youth either; only one yellow eye looked at me, while the other jaundiced orb wandered randomly like a dog in a park, whilst our short salutations were done. We sized each other up, and he snorted in contempt at the sight of me, and barked out his greeting;

“No visitors to the Valdenwail on the Feast of St. Oledan!” and with that the small door slammed shut on my face.

I felt dejected but not surprised. The three sentinels, sensing my defeated will, turned back to their original positions after their hour-long scrutiny of me, and though there was no physical evidence, and little supernatural impression, I could not but help feeling as though they wore smug smiles on whatever faces might be found beneath those flesh-eclipsing helms. I made my way back to my previous night’s camp, on the other side of the crest beneath the arch and two towers. It is here that I am sure I will die a slow death of exposure and tergiversation. “Feast of St. Oledan” indeed! I have never heard of such a Saint, and though I should be more modest, I am quite accomplished in my studies of the Saints at the Seminary. But then, here I am, camped out at the seat of the Saintly Faith in Avitus, where more knowledge has been hidden over the ages than can ever be guessed at. Who am I to doubt the existence of a Saint Oledan, or the veneration of this obscure Saint within the walls of the Valdenwail.

There is but one thing that disquiets me; before tonight, I could name 158 Saints and the dates of most of their venerations and ceremonies. Now, I can name 159, and though by the Grace of St. Ignatius, I wish to learn all I can of matters Saintly and otherwise, I hope that the callow concierge of the Valdenwail teaches me no more before I am lead to a fire and a bowl of warm food under a dry roof.

Already, my hand is too shaky to continue this book of days. I shall not write again before I am lead to warmth.

What of Janvermin?
