I must begin by bridging the gap in this chronicle. I spent four nights at least camped outside the Valdenwail, and they were all spent in misery. It may have been five nights, but I was so consumed by hunger and cold that I may have spent another unknown. I was wet and cold almost the entire time, until I resolved to go back to the sheltered intersection that I spoke of on the 15th. I knew the elements would not be as terrible there, and I was able to spend one night in comfort, and get some of my things dry. I did not want for water (in fact, I was in want of drought long before the door of the Valdenwail was opened to me), but I ran out of food on the 18th, and as I write tonight, I have a terrible rumble in my bowels from having eaten a terrible meal in too-few bites after too long a fast.

This morning, the 20th as best as I can tell, I was finally admitted to the Valdenwail. I was quite delirious and weak by the time the door was opened to me, and there are few details I can remember from that encounter. I do know the name of the man who has let me in though, as I have spent much of the day with him, and him only. If there is another soul living in the Valdenwail, I have no evidence of it.

Numble Evanshore is his name, and he calls himself by so many titles, from Door Warden to Executor, that certainly he must have a very long list of duties within the walls of this lorn acropolis. The man looks to be quite old, and in terrible health. With the exception of making quick and curt disallowances, he does nothing fast. He creaks and rattles along on knees that make more noise than rusty chains being dragged over a cobbled street, and the sound of his breathing reflects the moistness of the environment in which this place exists; surely his lungs are three parts full of fluid and poison and sickness, so that each breath is a struggle for the decrepit and pitiable thing, and the wheezing that follows each shrinking of his exsanguinous chest leaves a lump in my throat.

I was admitted to the place, and followed Numble through a dream. I would like to say that I mastered my discomforts, and took in the splendour of the fabled Valdenwail, but I did not. My first several hours within those hallowed walls were spent in a delirious stupor; my whole body had been soaked and chilled to the core, and indeed, to my brain, and I had no wit or senses beyond an instinct to follow Numble where ever he might be taking me. I am not sure how many hours we marched through that boundless labyrinth of superannuated stone, but at last, he brought me to the place I now write from.

I am now a resident of Dunvegan House. When I first arrived on the broad porch of this place, I had regained some little strength and warmth from my long walk through the acropolis. I noticed Numble struggling with a huge ring of keys of many different varieties, and he was saying to himself “Not an easy job, these days, being Key Deacon” and he let out such a lung-rumble that I thought he might die that instant. Where would I be then?

Anyway, he opened the door, and hobbled in, and made an irritated gesture for me to follow him. I did. He lit a single candle in the modest foyer, and spoke again.

“Dunvegan House. You will be our guest here and here only. There is logs and food in here.”

I began to muster myself for a delivery of my formal request to deliver my letter to the Scion, but Numble guessed I had something to say, and cut me off by waving both his hands at me in a feeble and tired dismissive gesture. “Save yer breath for billowing your fire, messenger. And don’t leave Dunvegan House”. He left, and he locked the door from the outside after he did. I am now a prisoner in the Valdenwail.

However, it is not a terrible incarceration. Though, Perhaps I am just happy of any place that will shelter me from the relentless rains and wind that assault the Lower Channel and any luckless traveler thereupon.

After Numble left, I took the candle, and wandered through the dusty place, and found many more candles to light. I was so thankful of the small warmth and light, that I lit every candle that I found, and those were thankfully many. This is a reasonably large place, though I am sure it has seen no guests in decades. The dust is thick upon every surface, and most of the furniture has been covered, though those coverings are now so moth eaten and threadbare that promontories on every piece can be seen peeking through the sheets.

My time on the road with Janvermin has again proven useful. After walking around the house searching for more candles to light, I noticed a track in the dust heading into a chamber that I had not yet been to. I cautiously entered the room, a lighted candle held aloft as my only weapon. The room was a kitchen, and it was empty of all life save mine. I followed the tracks to a large oak table, and thereupon I found a small sack of food and a bundle of sticks and one small log for a fire.

I am ashamed to own that I conducted myself like a beggar who has found a shilling, at that point. Upon discovering the food in the bag, I began to consume it in a most beastly manner, and it was this lapse in manners that earned me the gastric discomfort that I now own. At first glance, it seemed a rustic, though hearty meal; a couple of apples, a small wheel of cheese, some bread and a piece of thick dark meat. I ate the bread first, and had it all in my gullet before I noticed the dull acidic taste of mould in the back of my throat. It was strong enough to put me into a bout of coughing that might have rivalled Numble’s knells.

With no more dining caution than I practiced with the bread, I attacked the meat, tearing a mouthful from it and swallowing it down with little mastication. It stuck, and I paused. In this short pause, I took a moment to smell the morsel in my hand, and found it to be a very sub-comestible slab of foulness; it smelled like a leper’s foot, and was waxy as a corpse. I tried to hack up the piece stuck in the back of my throat, but somehow managed to swallow it down completely during my masticatory convulsions. It now rots in my stomach, but it must have some virtue in it, for though I feel trembles in my depths, at least I have some feeling.

A quick examination of the apples found them waxy and soft, and the cheese…I shall not think on it further. There was one bottle of red wine though, and that, I confess, is the finest I have ever had. Perhaps they have put some sweet poison in it.

Because the sticks and log were in the kitchen, I decided to start a fire in the cooking hearth in this room, rather than bother with carrying them to a more comfortable chamber. This laziness is deplorable in a graduate of the Seminary of Saint Ignatius, but I feel that my constitution has been tried beyond reason, and this one lapse in effort should be excused. At any rate, it cost me more energy in the end; I found a very comfortable burgundy leather chair in a drawing room, and decided on dragging it into the kitchen to enjoy the warmth of the small fire. The chair was certainly heavier than the wood. But it could be that I have made the right decision. The kitchen is small, and it is now quite warm.

I am now nodding off, and this leather chair will be a fine bed.

Just now, though, I have thought again of Janvermin. My rest will not be too sound.
