An entry from the Journal of Brother Stephan Dunmorrow, Envoy of Prelate Calvin Van Miserly of St. Ignatius

<span style=\"font-family: Old English Text MT; font-size: 13pt\">Oct 6, 1746</span>

When I first woke today, I was happy to see that my long journey from the Seminary was coming to an end. Across a broad valley, I espied the Hedge, of which I was warned. My good man, Janvermin, sensed some comfort in me, and was quick to dispense with it.

“The Hedge of the Valdenwail” He said grimly, pointing as if I was as nearsighted as my thick spectacles make me seem. “It marks a new phase of our journey. And a phase you shall enjoy as much as the previous”.

The man is cheerful as a gallows keeper. He was right though.

We quickly packed up our austere camp, and headed through the valley and towards the hedge on the other side. This distance I greatly misjudged. It seemed to me a distance of perhaps a half mile. But my judgement was misguided by the size of the Hedge. Thinking it perhaps 20’ high, I measured the valley thusly. And so it was that we had to cross a broad valley of several miles before our steep assent up the decrepit road to the edge of that wall of brambles.

The hedge itself must be well over 100’ high. Like any natural forest growth, it is thinnest and shortest at the edges. The road, such as it is, is overgrown by the encroaching Hedge at many places, and we were forced to veer off our course several times, and Janvermin had to find our way back. He is good at what he does, though, and we were never waylaid long before he had us marching over top of the ancient stones that form this once-proud road.

After a couple hours of this winding and trail blazing, we came to the densest part of the hedge. By this time, the road was a little better, and as we progressed, the Hedge around us became thicker and more sinister looking; large and wickedly curved thorns decorate the cheerless Hedge trees. One cannot pass anything larger than a hand into the hedge at this point, without sustaining many lacerations.

This thickness and impassability of the hedge is, at this point, marked by its vast height as well. The hedge is certainly over 100’ high, but only at some points is it possible to take a sounding of its height, for it is mostly like a tunnel; the grim coppice forming a vaulted tunnel, sometimes just barely over our heads, sometimes many scores of feet above us. Most times, the light of day is so thoroughly obstructed and diffused that one would think it the twilight hour. At some points it is pitch darkness. Still, at times, the canopy opens up, and sunlight falls, and it is much like taking a deep draught of air after a long submersion in a cold and inky lake.

I should say that the path is by no means straight. I doubt very much that we followed one tract of that gloaming grotto that stayed its course for more than 100 yards before an obtuse change in course presented itself. At many times, the conduit of the Hedge diverged from the ancient stones, only to find the venerable path again after several twists and turns.

Though we did not uncover any forks in the road, we did espy on two separate occasions, something which made us think we were nearing our destination. The first time, to the left of us, we saw some light struggling to penetrate the sable undercroft, and after a protracted bout of straining scrutiny, both I and Janvermin spotted a grey stony structure through the Hedge. We thought we would soon be coming to the Wall that I had been told of, which marks the halfway point of the veiled journey through that cheerless furrow. However, the meandrous thoroughfare went soon to the right, and it was long before our next sighting.

Several hours later, we again noticed, through and uncommonly thinned, yet still inexplicably obstructive, portion of the Hedge, a portion of grey stony wall. This time, we were both able to make out an archway in what was clearly a man-made, though ancient, wall. It was perhaps 50’ into the Hedge. I asked my man;

“Perhaps we are meant to carve our way to that bit of stone there, Vermin?”

His look was blank. He looked about briefly, and shrugged his shoulders - an uncommon response from him, to be sure.

“What do you think, man?” I demanded of him.

“I am ashamed to own, Sir,” he replied “I am quite out of my sounding. I have long ago lost track of our direction, and I am no longer even certain of the time of day.”

“Finding the time, at least, takes less skill than a leathery wanderer...” I began. I took my timepiece out of my shirt pocket, and to my horror, I noticed that it had become unwound. It should have been good for a day or two, at least, before it needed winding again. Perhaps this was a coincidence, but I begin to think, now especially, that it was not.

“Well, then!” I commanded myself. “We continue on. Though I have read almost all there is to read of this Hedge and the Valdenwail itself, I have read no tales of forestry efforts or the like. We continue down this crepuscule path!”

Brave words then. Thinking back on those Hedge-hidden blocks of stone has certainly fuelled my imagination. Whatever could those buildings be used for? By whom? How does one arrive at them? How long is it since they have seen the sight of Men?

After those mysterious structures, the path became more serpentine and increased in its opacity for the next several hours, until at last, we were sure that darkness had fallen on the Natural World outside of this confounding Hedge.

We have now made what camp we can. I am thankful, just now, for Janvermin’s expertise and circumspection. He had filled all of our skins with fresh water in the nape of the valley before the aperture of the Hedge. I was too excited to tend to such minutiae, but after such a journey, we are both in need of replenishment.

If I never saw pitch blackness before, I have tonight. Our camp is of such a Stygian nature, as to make me suspect that cheer and light were but tricks of the mind; falsely remembered and unconceived in fact.

</div>

Next entry, Oct 7, 1746<br><br>
