Excerpted from Dr. Eustace Worthorpe's History Primer for Students of the Humanities, Lord’s University., 1738 edition.

Before the Repurgo, this was the most widely studied period of History. This period is marked by the great migration of Men of the Empire into the Holy Theatres, known as the Crusades, and the unearthing, study, and development of the Magic of the Elders (called “New Magic” by Scholars of the Arcane; this age is sometimes called the Age of New Magic by practitioners of the Art). During this period, the Scion sits as Emperor in the City of Abaddonia (the name given to Gulfziam after Abaddon’s conquest, by the not-so-humble conqueror himself), and has dominion over all the lands from Lysander and the Valdenwail, to Heirgallad in the far North. With the excavations of the Elder Cities, Men learn road and bridge improvements that allow for a vast infrastructure for the Empire which makes the transporting of troops, supplies, goods and information quicker, safer and more efficient than had previously been imagined by the fearful Men of the Dark Ages. This is a tumultuous time, but also a time of great expansions of the Empire, and the furtherance of the Society of Men in Avilund. Some of the important dates of this age are listed, below;
 
== Excavation of the Valde Aula Waldheim (0) ==

One of the greatest archaeological finds of all time is the Valde Aula Waldheim; the Great Hall of the Elders. The hall was unearthed by the Scholars and Priests of St. Ignatius that had motivated and followed Abaddon around for twenty years. The Hall would have been a find of the first order if nothing but the floor was found; for upon the floor was a map of the Elder Civilization on the Continent. This map was used to locate dozens of other ruins. The Hall was also full of a great deal of Elder History in the form of carved friezes and statuary. This find was instrumental in the development of New Magic, as one of the ruins later uncovered provided most of the materials Men needed to further their study of the Magic of the Elders, and lead to a proliferation of practitioners of magic and artifacts. This find also secured the fiscal and political strength of the Canon of St. Ignatius, which it still enjoys to this day.

== The Armed Pilgrimage to the Eastern Theatre (First Crusade, 244-248) ==

As the roads of the Empire became safer, and her borders more secure, it wasn’t long in this age before Men started to look beyond their borders. By 244, Scion Innocentus (198-281) inspired a great movement known as the Armed Pilgrimage, after his Oratory of Faith, on July 1, 244, in the Blue Square of Abaddonia. Emissaries of the Scion traveled throughout the Empire inciting the Clergy and Nobility to arms, and by September of 245, a host of men and ships which had not been seen since the Saeculum Maximus Congrecius was assembled in the Bay of St. Barnabas, and they departed before the winter storms that year for the Eastern Archipelago, to locate, pacify and colonize the Holy Birthplace of St. Avitus. By all surviving accounts, they did indeed locate the archipelago, and established the first colonies there, but contact with those colonies (and Scion Innocentus, who had traveled to the home of his ancestors) was lost in 281, and would not be re-established for decades.

== Pilgrimage of the Pilgrims of Vander to the Eastern Theatre (Second Crusade, 334-518) ==

In 333, an auspicious year for the superstitious people of this age, a timely meteor shower in November persisted for 11 days and threw the Empire into chaos. Many feared that the time of Men was about to end. However, a clever Scion, Lothar the Unifier (301-389) claimed to have been visited in his sleep by St. Avitus. His ancestor, he claims, explained off the meteor shower as a great host of Angels that had flown from Heaven into Hell to wage war, and that the time had come to emulate the deeds of Angels here on Earth. He promptly changed the name of the city of Abaddonia to St. Avitus (a name which is still used by many of the staunch canons of the PDF), and many other places besides, in order to inflate the currency and façade of power of the Empire and the Canon of St. Avitus. 
 
For all the transparencies in his strategy to unify the panicked and fragmenting Empire, it worked. On December 7, 333, Luke of Abaddonia, the patriarch of the Ulmar Family, mobilized the entire resources of his Family, and much of the military strength of the Canon of St. Ulric, of which he was a senior clergyman, pledging to serve the Scion in whatever capacity the Scion might choose. Luke had been to the Eastern Archipelago in his youth, and had fought many battles against the Ferals on land and against the Kells at sea. By the spring of 334, there were again hundreds of nobles and clergymen from a number of families and many of the militant canons assembled in the Bay of St. Barnabas. They had all been inculcated into a new Order; the Pilgrims of Vander, which still exists in some small capacity in Lysander today. Then, as now, The Pilgrims of Vander were answerable ultimately to the Scion, with a High Marshal (Luke was the first) leading them. They were given a charter by the Scion, and granted lands in many parts of the Continental Empire, as well as promises of lands in the Holy Archipelago. Instrumental to the success of this second ‘Crusade’ was the shortage of land in the Empire worth fighting for. It is speculated that the number of nobles in the Empire was at its historical zenith in that very year of 334, and second-sons and lesser nobles were likely enticed by the promise of lands of their own in the Theatre, if only they fought.
 
The fleet took the entire Summer and Autumn to finally assemble, but by late October of 334, 50,000 men pledged to serve the Scion and follow the High Marshall into the Theatre. Before the Repurgo, this Crusade was studied in-depth as its own matter by scores of Historians. While some few literary works detailing this Crusade have survived, there were thousands of books and maps detailing every aspect of this Crusade before the fires of David of Sandalstone sought them out. The criminals of the Repurgo seemed to seek out works about this Crusade in particular, and took every measure and risk to destroy the hundreds of maps that had recorded the details of this crusade.
 
Fortunately, in recent years a few texts have been uncovered, though no maps, regarding this Crusade. The numbers of men partaking in this event is well documented in more than one source, but references to ‘The Great Album’, suggest that a complete roster was made of every man and horse that set foot on one of the boats of the fleet. It is well documented that King Gamaliel of Heirgallad and King Tomas of Mantlethorn boarded the boats themselves with over 1000 men each. There were many Prelates and Arch Bishops amongst the men, with Golgatha, Prelate of the Canon of St. Ulric acting as the spiritual head of the expedition, and second-in-command.
 
On October 19, 334 the fleet departed. In late Spring of the following year, news of its great success started to sail back to the Empire, and further fuelled the Crusade. A second wave of ships and men departed in 335 for the Archipelago. Today, it is uncertain how many colonies were re-established, and how many new ones were founded, but it is certain there were many. For nearly 200 years, men choked the docks of St. Barnabas to get on board any ship heading to the East, for a chance at prospering from the adventurous activities of this Crusade. Indeed, many ships returned laden with great wealth, and tales about the Pilgrims of Vander and their vast success abounded. However, something else came back with the ships along with wealth; tales of a strange religion practiced by the inhabitants of the old colonies of the first Crusade, and even stranger tales of what had become of the survivors in those colonies in the years between the Crusades.
 
Although details about the events leading up the end of the Second Crusade are now sketchy, again because of the effects of the Repurgo, it is known that rival Crusader Kingdoms came to war in the Theatre. By 516, war in the Archipelago was raging, and opportunistic Ferals and Kells also joined the chaos. In the winter of 517, fleets of people fleeing from the madness that had become the Theatre came into St. Barnabas like so many scolded dogs. In 518, the Scion managed to assemble a host of some 15,000 men to pacify the region anew, but this fleet was never heard from again, and so it is that the Second Crusade comes to an end in that year.

== Pilgrimage of the Ordo Croceus Cervus to the Western Theatre (Third Crusade, 548-594) ==

 
In the years between 518 and 548, the Empire experienced a dramatic increase in atrocious crimes in her cities and towns that were uncommon before this time. Ritual killings and massacres became a common occurrence, and many people went missing from areas that were previously considered safe, such as the civilized cities of the Monastic South and in St. Avitus itself. Though some historians draw a connection to the demographic crisis of those years, with so many able-bodied men having vanished over the seas in the first half of the 4th century, it is doubtless that the Black Faith was beginning to take hold in Avilund, its poison starting to course through the veins of Empire.

By 548, crimes of this sort, and crime and chaos in general were endemic in the Empire. There were too few nobles and senior clergy remaining after the failed Second Crusade to deal with all the problems at home, and for the first time in its history, the Empire found itself dealing with the problem of incarceration. There were too many criminals to house and manage reasonably, and while there were many proposals for dealing out harsher punishments for lesser crimes (hanging for just about everything), this solution was just not palatable for the people of this time. The Scion of the time, Malregard Avitus Vanderwail (389-568), was enterprising and resourceful like his father, Lothar. Like his father before him, he was visited in his sleep by his great ancestor, St. Avitus, who claimed that a safer rout to the Holy Archipelago could be found by going overland through the West, rather than heading East in boats in what had become a perilous time for navigation. Malregard claimed that in the dream, St. Avitus had a golden stag at his side, and behind the stag were many Saints. The Scion promptly ordered the creation of the Ordo Croceus Cervus (Order of the Golden Stag), and declared the pilgrimage through the Western Theatre in his famous, publicly delivered oratory and declaration of the Occasus Bellum Via, on August 29, 548.
 
At this point in History something new happens in the Ecclesiastic Empire of Men. The Pilgrims of Vander, which at this point in history are headquartered in the town of St. Barnabus, announce that they would not follow the orders of the Scion, largely because of the refusal of the Prelate of Ulric to comply with the conditions of the pilgrimage. It is not difficult to imagine that the High Marshal of the order and the Prelate of St. Ulric would have been nonplussed at the appointment of a new order to carry out what had been their business for the last two hundred years. But there was an even larger problem; Malregard declared in his oration that the time had come to create the Magnus Collego Sanctus, a great collection of the Saintly Artifacts from all of the Canons, to be kept in the Valdenwail, in order to secure them against the uncertainty of the time, and to safeguard them while the fighting orders were away from home. The Ordo Croceus Cervus would be charged with protecting this reliquary for all times. This did not sit well with the Prelates of many canons, St. Ulric none-the-least. The Prelate refused to surrender Salm, Ulric’s battleaxe, as well as the other artifacts of the Canon, and other Prelates followed his lead. This was the first recorded schism of the PDF, the first act of non-compliance by any Prelate.

It is suspected that the Scion created some sort of secret order or agency that was charged with the procurement, by any means possible, of all the Saintly Artifacts in Avilund. Several smaller Canons that refused to submit to the terms of the Scion did have their artifacts go missing. However, there was never any known documentation of proof that the Scion had a hand in this, and to be sure, there was a growing preponderance of the Black Faith in those times that might have had the same larcenous goal.
 
The Ordo Croceus Cervus was gearing up for their march along the Occasus Bellum Via, and many of the less-seditious canons backed this Crusade and the Order that was leading it. This is the Crusade of Saint Severinius, whose Canon was chosen to back the Ordo, and see to the spiritual well-being of the pilgrims. The body of St. Sever was relocated to the Magnus Collego Sanctus in a great ceremony in November of 548, and interred in the Collego, and the Mace of the Ordo Croceus Cervus was bestowed upon the Prelate of St. Sever by the Scion himself on that day in the Valdenwail. 
 
Religious and political tensions in the Empire were at a zenith in 549; the problems of crime and criminals had not lessened, and more than half of the Saintly Canons followed the lead of the Canon of St. Ulric, and refused to surrender their artifacts to the Scion and his reliquary. The Prelate of St. Sever, no doubt acting under the direct orders of the Scion, declared that any Canon that did not submit its artifacts to the reliquary could not partake in the Pilgrimage along the Occassus Bellum Via. This caused great pressures for the non-compliant Canons; it was suspected that this organized march into the West would be the first great opportunity to safely secure lands west of the Sea of Sorrow and the Devils Plain, and they sorely wanted to be involved. To make matters worse, artifacts continued to be stolen from the smaller Canons, and some Canons actually lost their Holy Writ from the Scion because of this. To this day, it is still Canonical Law that a Faith can only maintain its Writ so long as it can provide physical evidence of the Sanctus Mortuis Somes of the Saint in question. Despite the fact that there are no known surviving artifacts some of the larger faiths, such as that of Judith and Sebald, the PDF was still able to wield this rule selectively, and apply pressure on some Canons that were poised to lose Writ. The Canon of St. Theobald, for example, was given the chance to maintain Writ after the body of their Saint was stolen, by declaring that they would submit all their holdings in the Western Theatre to the Vanderwails. This was a common agreement that kept several Canons alive.
 
This all seems like a more protracted explanation for background events for the Third Crusade, but it is important to understand the religious and political tensions of the time, to understand what happened next. Late in June of 549, the Scion and the Ordo Croceus Cervus were getting anxious to get the pilgrimage under way, but they were having a difficult time assembling what they thought was a suitable expeditionary force without the inclusion of the Canon of St. Ulric and the backing of the Pilgrims of Vander. Those Historians that give Malregard a generous degree of credit claim that he foresaw the difficulties and the slight schism of the PDF, and knew that those who would remain loyal to him would be of insufficient numbers to mount a proper pilgrimage. As the season grew late and the small army of the Ordo became a greater burden upon the City of Lysander, the staging point for the pilgrimage, the pressure to assemble the needed men and get things underway became severe. At this point, Malregard penned the Propositum Servitus, which declared that any criminal who served under the banner of the Golden Stag for one year in the Western Theatre would be a free man at the end of that service, and be entitled to lands in the Theatre. And so in one stroke of the pen, two great problems were solved; the jails were emptied all over the Empire, and a suitable host was assembled in Lysander by the end of September. It is worth noting that this mobilization happened much faster than logistically possible for the time, and it is doubtless that this measure was planned out in great detail long before the Propositum was put to paper and made legal. 
 
While the problem of bolstering the crusading expedition had been solved, there still remained the religio-political problem of the Collego, and the sedition of the Canons to deal with. The Scion was worried, and rightly so, that once the armies of his loyal subjects were thousands of miles away in the Western Theatre, that the influence of those that stayed home, Ulric and Ignatius in particular, would become too potent. Malregard devised a plan that might have worked, if not for a protracted bout of terrible luck much later on, and the unforeseen deviousness of some Prelates. He knew that the Prelate of St. Ulric desperately wanted to join the Pilgrimage, as it would certainly be a lucrative venture, and that crusading is at its core the essence of the Canon of St. Ulric. Malregard offered an amendment to his demands upon the PDF to submit their artifacts to the Collego; he declared that any Canon that would bring its artifacts to bear in the Western Theatre could retain them afterwards, and that any Canon losing Sanctus Mortuis Somes as a result of the pilgrimage would not lose Writ. This declaration brought the Canon of St. Ulric and many others (though not St. Ignatius) into the Pilgrimage, and also assembled the greatest number of religious artifacts ever gathered together. 
 
Finally, on 3 December, 549, the host marched from Lysander and into the Western Theatre, with more than 100,000 men, half of which were criminals under the banner of the Golden Stag. This was a slow and deliberate Crusade. The veteran campaigners of the Pilgrims of Vander insisted on a forced march through the desert and into whatever lands were to be found beyond, but the Ordo took a different approach. They built fortress after fortress on the long march of decades into the Western Theatre, and was this decision to do so that won them the prosperity that they still enjoy to this day. In the Western Theatre, the Men of the Empire found Men of a different variety; the dusky skinned Foreigners, or Westerners, that we know of today. They found many new races and tribes of _Ferals as well, and between these two new opponents, a forced march could not be maintained. Logistics in the face of a pair of relentless foes would have been impossible, if not for the deliberate fortifying approach of the Ordo. This approach also secured the new road for decades during this Crusade and the later, Fourth Crusade, and many villages and small kingdoms grew out from the walls of the Crusader Castles that line the Bellum Via.
 
For the next 45 years, the Pilgrimage in the Western Theatre continued, and every summer news would come back from the front of new fortresses built, new kingdoms of westerners defeated, new races of Ferals destroyed, new treasuries raided and riches flowing back east. And so, every autumn, new recruits headed west along the Bellum Via into the Western Theatre. The Ordo Croceus Cervus became more rich and powerful than the Pilgrims of Vander, and the authority and influence of the Canon of St. Sever reached its height at the end of this Crusade.
 
By 590, however, things started to change. After more than 40 years of marching westward, there was some doubt about the existence of a passage to the Eastern Theatre, and so the confidence of the pilgrimage was shaken. As well, by this time the pilgrims had met with a very strong kingdom of Westerners which they could make any progress past, let alone conquer. The name of this kingdom is now lost to History, but certainly it must have been spoken in curses for centuries to follow, as it was this kingdom which put an end to the Third Crusade, and in fact mobilized its own crusade, of a stamp, against the Men of the Empire. 
 
In 591, news came back to Lysander that several castles on the front had been destroyed, with entire garrisons massacred. The Crusade had ceased its dauntless progress westward, and fewer people flocked to its cause that Autumn. In 592, heretical news arrived that the front had moved eastward by more than 500 miles, and that many castles were surrendering to the Westerners, and, worse yet, converting to their faith. While there was a brief redoubling of Imperial efforts to fortify the front and cease the loosing of ground to the heathen Westerners, by 593 the front had moved back more than 1000 miles total. The loss of ground and castles in this year was concomitant with the loss of several Holy Artifacts and relics. Several of the artifacts of the Canon of St. Ulric were lost in monumental battles, and those of other Canons vanished in a variety of ways. While there were many rumours about Scions secret order operating in the Western Theatre stealing artifacts for the Collego, doubtless many were lost honestly in the ceaseless advance of the Westerners and their conquest over the Crusader Castles.
 
In 594 a host of some 7,000 men of both Crusading Orders were assembled in Lysander. They marched off in August, but by October, the van of the heathen crusading army approached the walls of St. Severinius Castle on the Bellum Via bearing grisly evidence of the annihilation of the OCC and PV army that had marched westward 2 months earlier. A siege of the castle ensued, but only briefly. By the time December came, the Western army lifted siege and departed, but the will of the Empire to make pilgrimage in the Western Theatre had been destroyed, and it would be over 800 years before an organized effort to make pilgrimage westward again was made.

== Massacre at St. Irenaeus (528) ==

 
This age is associated with the unmasking of the Black Faith as well as the Crusades. In the monastery of St. Irenaeus in 528, a plot to murder the Saintly folk there was uncovered. A warden of the monastery named Ultan was found to be practicing some very unorthodox rituals, and he was subsequently arrested, tried and sentenced to death. He was sentenced to hang, but made a full confession and renounced his obscene faith, and requested that he be drowned in the well rather than hang, stating that he did not want his death to become a spectacle that might draw others into the cult into which he had been inculcated. He was thrown in the well with weights around his ankles and drowned. On the Feast of All Hallows’ Eve, several months later, all of the residents of the monastery were poisoned by the water from the well, and before midnight the entire population of over 1000 was dead. The bodies were not discovered until the next spring when merchants arrived to trade, and they reported that the bodies had been laid out in a corn field in a specific fashion to spell the name of ‘Ultan’. This was the first recorded encounter with this name, and it is not known if the man known as Ultan was possessed by the Devil of the same name, or if he simply affected that name, or if the soul of the man ascended to become the Devil that many theologians are now familiar with.

== Massacre at Tarmin (639) ==

 
In 639 the village of Tarmin in the Bishopric of St. Sebald, near Lysander, learned the terrible name of Sodor. By this time, the Third Crusade was well over, and the demographic recovery of the Empire had begun. Though the wealth associated with the Crusades had ceased to flow down the Bellum Via, the Empire was making an economic recovery after the blow dealt to it in 594. After 40 years, there was again optimism. However, this was jilted when in the autumn of 639 when traders came to the village and found it completely annihilated. There wasn’t a living soul in the village, and the corpses of some 1000 villagers had been mutilated beyond recognition. In fact, the faces of all the villagers had been removed and used to make a gigantic and grisly mosaic which depicted a four-armed devil of some sort. On the doors of every dwelling the name “Sodor” was found scrawled in blood. It is likely that after this occurrence, or possibly even the massacre at St. Irenaeus, that the Scion instituted the Inquisition, but it was not unmasked quite yet.
 

== Massacre at the Cathedral of St. Avitus, Waldheim (750) ==

111 years after the massacre at Tarmin, the Black Faith struck it’s most terrible blow to date. In the Autumn of 750, the PDF was sitting conclave in Waldheim. At a large banquet in the Cathedral of St. Avitus, the plotting of the Black Faith was revealed in a well-timed and well-planned out attack upon the Cathedral. Members of the Black Faith had infiltrated many of the Canons that were invited to the banquet, including St. Sever, St. Sebald and St. Ignatius. It was the multitudinous servants of evil in the ranks of the Ignatians that has helped to keep that faith in poor standing in the PDF to this very day. When the high-ranking officials of all the guest-canons were seated, knives were drawn, and terrible magics wielded, and the banquet-hall turned into an abattoir. At the same time, terrible monstrous demons assailed the guard on the streets, keeping them from helping their doomed masters inside. The Scion, Nicetus Avitus Vanderwail (700-804) was himself attacked in that bloody banquet, but was able to make his escape with a few of his closest advisors through the virtue of his own great will, or so the stories go. At the end of the night, hundreds of clergy from many canons lay dead and mutilated, the Prelates of St. Ignatius and St. Sebald included. This event remains the most heinous assassination ever successfully carried out in the PDF. When order was restored, the culprits had vanished, but had hung a great banner over the banners of the Scion and the Empire which declared the Avilund belonged to ‘Maccul’ and his ‘Black Saints’. Thus all three names of the devils had made their debut, their suspected leader last, and his ‘Black Saints’ announced. This had the intended effect; panic spread throughout the Empire like a fire across a dry plain.
 
There are more than a few heretical accounts of those days that suggest that Emperor Nicetus had much to gain through the deaths of the Prelates of St. Ignatius and St. Sebald, as well as many other political figures who perished at the banquet. It is theorized that the Scion had proposed the institution of the Inquisition at the previous Conclave, but the motion was turned down largely through the influence of the Ignatians. Further, it was uncommon in those days for any Canon but those of the First Order to be invited to the Banquet of the Scion, and St. Ignatius alone of the Second Order was invited. Unfortunately, any records that might shed light on this possible conspiracy, heresy though it may be, have never been mentioned. Three nights after the massacre, Nicetus began the terrible age of Inquisition when he made his infamous decree, the Prospectus Imperialis ex Daemonica.

*Forward to Middle Late History
*Back to Late Middle History
