Excerpted from Dr. Eustace Worthorpe's History Primer for Students of the Humanities, Lord’s University., 1738 edition.

There are two important regions to consider, when discussing Early History, and this section shall be divided between them; the Eastern Archipelago, and Avilund.

== Early History ==

Early History, for Men, occurs exclusively in the Eastern Archipelago, where it is surmised that Men originate from. The only record of any kind about this area is the Tale of the Woodland King, which gives us a look at the Archipelago in transition. This tale comes at the end of a presumably long age of strife and turmoil in the Archipelago, though we know little of the source of this trouble. The characters in the Tale are the only names we know of this entire region, though before the Repurgo, there were many works which gave further light to this region. The First and Second Crusades came back with an abundance of artifacts, documents, history and tales about this region, but none are now to be found anywhere. There is much speculative fiction about this region in this time, but the only hard facts come from the Tale, which is just that; a tale.

It is important to note that during this time, the Elders had already prospered and were in their Autumnal Years as a society in Avilund. We know a little of what they had been up to during the time before Men came to Avilund, through the records of the Collegium Waldheim, many of which are preserved by the vigilant keepers of the Seminary of St. Ignatius. It is certain that they were engaged in a war of millennia with the Ferals, and that they had some sort of great inner struggle as well, which was instrumental in their decline and final ruination. Before Men came to Avilund the Elders had colonized the entire continent, though by the time Men came, many places had been uninhabited for thousands of years, and many were overrun with the Ferals. 

Some scholars argue that Early History ends in 201 SHA, when Ignatius, Anselm and Gratus visited Waldheim, and escaped just before its fall to the Ferals, and the destruction of Last Elders of Waldheim. This is an Elderocentric view, which is a valid academic argument, but most credible professors and students of history will acknowledge that Early History ends in 1400 BC, 0 SHA, with the arrival of men in the Elder Dénouement.

*Forward to Early Middle History
