Gerome Pettiman is the patriarch of a family in the County of Norweald, and holds baronial title in the parish of Avitus-on-Tine. 

Mention of the Pettiman name, when heard in polite circles (an occurrence becoming more and more uncommon in recent years), rarely fails to evoke a certain tinge of sorrow, sympathy and the sense that the world is moving on. On those few occasions where such sentiment is absent, the response is generally laughter and a snorted refrain of “Good riddance to bad rubbish”.

right|350px|thumb|Pettiman Hall, known as 'Petty Hall'
left|200px|thumb|Baron Gerome in his declining years
Under Baron Gerome's management, the family fortunes have progressed from decline to decay, and there is little reminder of the family’s former wealth. Part of this is due to the diminishing population of the Norweald countryside. The tenant farmers of Avitus-on-Tine have gradually been forced out, as their lands have been purchased to provide grazing for the vast herds of sheep owned by Waldheim's prosperous wool merchants. Once a thriving parish of over 1000 souls, it has been more than a century since the population was more than a hundred. Today, the village has perhaps a dozen inhabitants, and another couple dozen in the countryside. The lands are mostly vacant farms, extensive pastures, and some maple and oak forests.

Pettiman Hall is the largest domestic estate in the parish, and Baron Gerome and his eldest son Simon Gerrod live there alone, tending the property with no servants or staff. Called ‘Petty Hall’ by those who are even aware of it, the empty manor is large, draughty and much in need of repairs. With so few tenants, the barony cannot collect enough parish taxes to pay tribute to the Count, and it is likely that should the deficit continue, the family’s title will be stripped, and its lands sold off to pay bad debts. A younger son, Jeremy Puck, resides in the neighbourhood of Sever’s Cross, Waldheim near the border with the Fleet district.

However, a further, and perhaps more apposite reason for the Pettiman misfortune is Baron Gerome’s unwillingness to move with the times. Despite his rustic situation, Gerome is a proud man, and makes no secret of the fact that his family is connected to the Old Blood of Waldheim, and that his ancestors once possessed the largest stables in the Republic. Few, however, would disagree that this pride has been his downfall. Time after time, he has burned bridges with the increasingly powerful merchants of Waldheim, demanding their recognition of his inherent superiority as a member of the nobility. At first, many pandered to the Baron’s self-delusions as a way to seek access to the resources of Avitus-on-Tine. Unfortunately for the Baron, the false friends he made early in his career soon grew tired of their client’s insufferable eccentricities, and took their revenge through the ‘fine print’ of contracted agreements that the Baron had signed, but never read, confident in the inviolability of the Gentleman’s Agreement. 

Apparently, the Baron and the merchants differed in their definition of what makes a gentleman. A brief foray into the County Court made the Baron’s temper a cause celebre for a short time in 1736, but when the Court found in the defendants’ favour, Baron Gerome swore that “the lawyer may be classed in the natural company of Ferals” and that he would have no more truck with institutions that “forsake the Holy Pillar of Justice for the Greasy Quagmire of Law”. As the Barony’s situation spirals out of control, the Baron has taken steadily to drink, spending his hours and days quietly – and not-so-quietly – raging against the upstart merchant classes of Waldheim.
