Hamstonfast is a village.

The following is excerpted from the Adnihilo Inter Nos Codex.

Brother-Inquisitor Dredfall it was who was selected to investigate the terrible goings on in the doomed village of Hamstonfast in One-Thousand and Twenty-One. Reports of a cult of Black Faith in that town were many, and given the proximity of the place to Irenaeus, it was suspected that a cult of Ultan had been uncovered. However, Inquisitor-Prelate Motican identified in the reports some articles which ruled out the likelihood of the Ultanites, and suggested a straight-forward, albeit markedly dangerous, demon-worshiping cult. The reports suggested that there would not be a Man in the Empire capable of withstanding the will of the demon that plagued Hamstonfast. And so it was that Dredfall was chosen; his will was unmatched, even by Mortican; Dredfall, when once charged with being a demon himself, used a hot brand to burn the entirety of the Prospectus Imperialis Ex Daemonica onto his legs, arm and chest, though the pain of it must have been unrivaled. 

When Dredfall arrived in Hamstonfast, he found he could muster the aid of not a single villager, so great was their fear of the demon that had taken every third child and woman from that village for its entertainments in the hills nearby. Dredfall had to make a grisly display of eleven villagers before he could convince the rest to assist him and his retinue.

The investigation was a protracted affair, and at every encounter with the beast (who he came to know as Gazzlemast), he was unable to keep his retinue and the mob in good order, and they often set upon themselves, killing each other in the most terrible fashion, while Dredfall pursued the demon. It is an ugly legend that Dredfall put the entire village to the flame himself, but in fact, more than one third of the village had died in assisting the Inquisitor in his investigation, before the final confrontation with Gazzlemast.

On October 31, 1021, Dredfall had set up a trap for the beast in the heart of the village, where the All Hallows' Feast was still set be enjoyed by the villagers. As expected, the arrogant and confident demon appeared right in the midst of the festival. Dredfall, however, had enlisted the help of an Ignatian, who had drawn a Great Circle encompassing the whole of the festival grounds. The people were immune to the will of Gazzlemast, and he could likewise not make an escape by any means. However, the demon revealed that it had the power of possession, and though its black and terrible body fell to the blades of the mob, its soul entered a villager, who immediately set upon his neighbours. As one possessed villager was slain, the demon took command of another body. Dredfall ordered what remained of his retinue to begin destroying the villagers, and it is a credit to the will and reputation of the man, and the obedience of his retinue, that they carried out his orders, for certainly some of them must have know that their fate had been cast in that circle. As the remaining mortal souls grew fewer and fewer, the demon began to panic, and it attempted to take command of Dredfall himself. While the two of them struggled in the Realm of the Mind, the last of the villages was being slain. At length, but a single member of Dredfall's retinue remained; the Ignatian who had devised the circle, and while Dredfall held the last villager in his clutches of his hands, and the demon and he held each other in the clutches of each others will, Dredfall ordered the Ignatian to destroy himself. When the Ignatian fell to the ground with his own sword in his belly, Dredfall broke the neck of the final villager, and Gazzlemast had nowhere left to flee, and was banished from this World.

This event has been recast in a terrible light over the years, but the Inquisitor must look to the will and determination of Dredfall, and take inspiration from his unwavering commitment to his course of action.
