The current Lord Mayor of Waldheim is Sir Jeremy Rowan of Newton Hill. Sir Jeremy is serving the first year of his second term in this office (he held the office from 1743-5). He is a wealthy man who is a faithful follower of Ulric, but a close supporter of Severinius and Sebald in the City. He is the Alderman for his Ward, Newton Hill, which is an achievement in itself; there are many men capable of this office from that Ward, and the competition for the office would have been tremendous. The Lord Mayor has been instrumental in the flourishing of the Bank of Waldheim, and is a supporter of the New Finance, though it is no secret that he holds aspirations for Title. As would befit such a man, he is surrounded by an enormous retinue, and need never sully his hands or his reputation by dealing directly with the stock-jobbers and other venture-seekers.

Sir Jeremy holds some animosity for the Senate; it is well known that he has resisted Senatorial attempts to divert funding from the City to pay for the diversions of nobles outside of the City. He has even opposed increases in taxes to support some of the standing Royal Regiments, especially those distant from the City. This Lord Mayor is a man born and bred of the City, and his interests do not go far beyond his walls, even when the Senate insists otherwise. Rowan has made his way to his current position through savvy relations with the Royal Companies (Livery Companies, or Trade Guilds). That is no surprise, I suppose; any Lord Mayor needs the support of at least one Royal Company to even become a nominee for the chair. However, Rowan has very close ties to the Royal Companies of Haberdashers, Goldsmiths, Glovers and Clockmakers, which are very influential Companies. He has repaid their patronage by endorsing and encouraging the consumption of fashionable clothing and related goods in the City, if any encouraging was needed; the moneyed people of the City go about in the newest and finest clothes they can afford. Though he is not popular in the Senate, he has long been respected in the City Council of Aldermen, and he has a fair reputation among the ecclesiastic authorities as well; the Bishop of St. Ulric is a close friend, and he is on excellent terms with the Bishops of St. Sever and St. Sebald. He has turned down the office of Arch Bishop of St. Cardigan more than once, though this has not harmed his relations with this faith.
