of the City of Waldheim.]]
Nine years his brother’s junior, Jeremy Puck Pettiman, known also as Remy, could not be more different than his grim and gormless sibling. Heated in both physique and character, the contrast between the two is night and day. Whereas dour Simon Gerrod complacently sits at Petty Hall with his father, awaiting the extinction of the family line that inexorably draws near, Remy’s imagination, ambition, and seemingly inexhaustible capacity for scheming and deception have earned his (not unwelcome) banishment from his father’s presence.

== The History of Remy Pettiman ==

=== Puck the Magpie ===

As a child, Remy spent his summers and autumns in Methwold in the City of Waldheim with his great uncle Farlingerer, a relation of his mother’s. Given free reign of the city streets – anything to keep him from getting underfoot in his uncle’s house - he spent his days (and occasionally nights) in the market district of Sever's Cross, drinking in the grand pageant of haggling, swindling, bargaining, and bullying that sent people, goods, and (most alluringly) silver, dancing on through the great City. The marketplace caught his imagination, and from the moment of his first wondering exploration, his own involvement in the spectacle was fixed as inexorable destiny. Perceptive enough to realize that neither his father nor the traders of Sever’s Cross would take well to a nobleman’s child (even, if not especially, a Pettiman) slumming with the merchant classes, he took to disguising his fiery red hair with soot and a farrier’s cap, and using the crisp argot of the marketplace to obscure his rusticated aristocratic origins. His curiosity and impudence served him well, and ‘Puck’ became well known in the markets of Sever’s Cross, gaining a reputation during the summer season as a reliable runner, sending messages between vendors and suppliers as the need arose. To his friends among the other runners, he also became known as a sly hand at pocketing and selling this and that bauble for his own profit, gaining the moniker “Puck the Magpie”, or “Eely Puck” for his ability to wriggle out of trouble. On those occasions when he was very nearly caught with his hand in the wrong pocket (and there were a few), Remy would always manage to play the role of the victim, put up to a ‘prank’ by local bullies. His uncle in Methwold never knew where the boy spent his time, nor cared, as his sister’s daughter’s boy was given room and board only by dint of a provision of the testatrix, and not through any benevolence of his own.

=== Baronet with the Silver Tongue ===

During the mild winters and springs back in Avitus-on-Tine, Remy forsook the musty shadows and cobwebs of Petty Hall for the open air. He affected uselessness around the house, thereby securing license to accompany Petty Hall’s aged steward, Northrop, on errands around the parish for supplies. By the time Northrop had been dismissed, Remy had graduated from a pony to a brindled mare named Westmore, his favourite from the stables of Petty Hall, and taken on the job of securing provisions himself. Even Puck the Magpie would have been impressed with the manner in which he accomplished himself, and there were many in the parish that came to rue the days on which they had to deal with the baronet with the silver tongue.

=== Two Disasters ===

In his sixteenth year, two disasters occurred. The first was that his father forbade him from returning to the city for the summer season. A sudden turn of good fortune had brought in a large influx of capital, and Remy was needed on the estate to take care of some long-delayed repairs. The second of these occurred when he learned from his brother the source of the revenue that had so pleased his father – the sale of Petty Hall’s remaining horseflesh, including Westmore, to a successful Waldheim silver merchant resupplying his stables. His father’s temper ran strong in Remy, and the injustice of this double blow sent the baronet, just returned from a foray into St. Sebald’s-on-Tine, storming furiously into his father’s study, still wearing his riding clothes and farrier’s cap. The baron, as it turned out, was in the midst of finalizing the disposition of the horses with the merchant, but Remy paid no attention as he let loose a stream of epithets that would have impressed a seasoned veteran of Hog’s Market. The confrontation quickly escalated despite the merchant’s presence and ended with the father savagely striking his son to the floor of the study. As Remy lay sobbing, the elder Pettiman stood shaking in fury and shock. How dare the boy embarrass him this way in front of company! “I beg your pardon, Mr...” the baron began, but the merchant cut him off with a wave, looking coldly at the baron. “I am not impressed with what I have witnessed here, Mister Pettiman. In any case, I believe our business for the day is concluded. Please see that this boy delivers my horses personally next Tuesday to make his apologies. I bid you good day.” With a curt bow, Jack Spinner took his leave of Petty Hall.

The baron, discombobulated by the events that had just occurred, did not miss the verbal slight, but fumed even more at the idea of his son – a baronet! – taking on the work of delivery man. Still, the baron recognized that he needed the revenue these horses represented, and he knew that he could not afford to get on the wrong side of Jack Spinner. It was well known that Spinner’s wealth rivalled that of Count Norweald, and for all his hatred of the merchant classes, the baron knew that Spinner’s favour was worth the entire parish’s weight in silver. Ultimately, Baron Gerome decided that, as it had been the boy’s behaviour that had so offended Spinner, then the ignominy of the task would be suitable punishment.

In truth, Spinner had been disgusted by the actions of a man with whom he had quickly lost patience. At the moment the boy had burst in, he had been so sick of the baron’s attitude that he had been toying with the idea of ripping up the contract – and he had drawn up the blasted thing himself! However, he had immediately recognized the farrier’s cap the baronet had been wearing, and knew him to be Eely Puck, a runner that had served him in good stead over several seasons. The realization had piqued his curiosity about why the younger son of a rustic noble should be leading a double life as a street rat in Waldheim, so he had given Pettiman his terms. And Jack Spinner knew they would be met.

In due course, at noon on the following Tuesday, Spinner himself met Remy as he delivered the twelve horses, including Westmore, to a farm outside of Highborough.

“Well met, young Master Pettiman,” called Spinner as he stepped out of the shadows of the stable, doffing a straw hat he had been wearing to cover his face. “Or should I say, Master Eely Puck?”

=== Magpie Under Wing ===

Remy had been too incensed the week before to recognize Spinner, whom he had known for years in Sever’s Cross, and was for perhaps the first time in his life, at a loss for words. His game of nearly six years was up. Well, he supposed, no matter. It seemed that this year it was to be up one way or the other. He grinned as he vaulted from Westmore’s back and gave a graceful bow to the merchant. “We are both happy to be at your service, Mister Spinner. I entreat your forgiveness for my father’s lack of both couth and courtesy last week, ask you to excuse the tasteless manner in which my deception was unmasked.” Spinner laughed at the boy’s effrontery. This was Puck indeed, without a doubt.

Spinner had made enquiries around Avitus-on-Tine during the previous week, and knew well the lad’s reputation and circumstances. He knew that should Remy be confined to the parish at this impressionable age, the spark that he had admired in Puck in the markets – and in the fiery encounter of the previous week – would either be extinguished or grow wild in the company of his bleak and stifling relations. After an hour of conversation with the boy, he knew that something had to be done for the boy.

The next week, a letter came to Petty Hall from the Royal Company of Silversmiths to the attention of Baron Gerome.

13Dear Baron Gerome,

Many thanks for the delivery of the horses. The young baronet has apologized suitably for the encounter I witnessed last Tuesday week, and I feel no hesitation at the prospect of future dealings with your Estate. In fact, I understand from my close friend Viscount Nuald that the baronet is to spend to spend the summer and autumn with his great uncle Farlingerer in Methwold. As my affairs in the City keep me in Waldheim, and I know that you are occupied with your estate in Norweald, the baronet is well placed to act as an intermediary between us. On my last visit, I espied a stand of timber upon which I feel we may be able to come to a mutually profitable agreement. Please send your reply as soon as you can to my offices at Silversmith House, Methwold.

Regards,

— Jack Spinner

So it was that Jeremy Puck Pettiman, baronet of Avitus-on-Tine came to be employed as an apprentice within the machinations of Jack Spinner, soon to become the Master of the Royal Company of Silversmiths. The summer and autumn of 1745 changed Jeremy Pettiman’s life, and when he returned to Petty Hall that winter, he was burning with ambition to reverse the family’s destiny, and to restore the Pettimans to wealth, and through wealth, honour.

=== Flying Too High ===

Unfortunately, the past seasons had seen the beginning of a decline in the Baron’s health, and a corresponding increase in the unpredictability and severity of his tempers. While he had reluctantly consented to letting his son return to Waldheim for the summer and autumn, it had been on the assumption that his connection to Spinner would bear fruit in the short term. However, aside from an moderately lucrative sale of timber rights to Spinner’s organization, little other benefit had accrued. Were the relationship between the Pettimans and Spinner to bear any fruit at all, it seemed, it would be far in the future. And for Baron Gerome, any fruit he would not be around to eat was bitter indeed.

Furthermore, the energy, ambition, and worst of all, the modern ideas that Remy had returned with to Avitus-on-Tine grated on the Baron’s nerves, and he came to resent Spinner all the more. It was increasingly obvious to the baron that his son had been poisoned by the ‘New Finance’, and lost all perspective on his rights and obligations as a noble. To Remy, it was impossible not to realize that his father was the relic of a former time, rusted and useless in the modern world. Disagreements between father and son grew to arguments, arguments to quarrels, and, though Simon Gerrod did his best to act as a mediator, it became obvious that the battle of wills and temper could not end peaceably. In March of 1746, the baron banished Remy from Avitus-on-Tine on pain of disinheritance should the old man ever see him again. Jeremy Pettiman left Petty Hall the way a prisoner leaves the gaol behind him when he walks into the sunlight.
