Excerpted from Dr. Eustace Worthorpe's History Primer for Students of the Humanities, Lord’s University., 1738 edition.

== Brogard's Aftermath ==

This is one of the most commonly accepted periods of history; it is sharply defined by the year 450 BC, with the destruction of Brogard’s Hoard at the outset, and the conquest of Gulfziam by Abaddon at its termination. This age goes by many names; Twilight Ages, Age of Rebuilding, Age of Sorrow, Age of Fragmentation, and many others besides. During this period of History, Men in Avilund struggled to reclaim the territories lost to the invasion of Brogard. While things in the south of the Empire progressed smoothly, in the middle-continent and the north, it was more difficult. These states were farther from Imperial support, and Feral populations had been historically larger and more troublesome in those territories as well. In the north, reclaiming the Imperial territories was further hindered by the arrival, in 244 BC of the Kells.

== The Kellish Fleet ==

 
The arrival of the Kells in 244 BC is well documented. They arrived in a great fleet of hundreds of oar- and sail-drawn rakers from the Eastern waters, with a host of perhaps some tens of thousands. They landed north of Heirgallad, and have troubled that kingdom ever since. The Kells were met immediately with force by the Knights of Heirgallad, who, despite having great numbers and the advantage of a defensive position, were not prepared for the ferocity of the Kells, who fought in an unordered and completely different manner than the Knights were prepared for. Their savagery in battle made even the Continental Ferals look civilized by comparison. It is difficult to say how things might have been different, if the King of Heirgallad had extended the olive branch rather than the sword, but perhaps the Empire might have found a new ally. The Kells never seemed more than mildly interested in the lands south of Heirgallad, and have only ever attacked peripheral towns and villages of that Kingdom since their arrival 2000 years ago. Indeed, the Kells seemed more interested in the coastal areas north of the Imperial borders, and likely fought countless more battles with the Ferals than with Men.

== Garamond's Challenge to Raighth ==

left|400px|thumb|Klunaigh and Steadholme, from a Late Middle woodblock print
Though the Kells were (and are) terribly vicious opponents when provoked, they actually preferred (and still do) to settle land and property disputes with one-on-one combat with champions. Once the King of Heirgallad learned of this tradition in the Kells, he quickly embraced the custom, which was not too far removed from the Right of Challenge which the knights and other nobility of Heirgallad and other kingdoms already practiced. Unfortunately, it took until the year 105 BC before King Garamond of Heirgallad figured this out, and the countryside of the Kingdom was a place of constant war for those intervening years. 

However, in 105 BC, King Garamond held council with the Kellish Warlord Raigth, over a land dispute on the edge of the kingdom. They decided to settle it themselves, by having their champions fight to the death to determine the outcome. Fighting for Garamond was Edgar Steadholme, a knight of great renown. For Raigth, a barbarian named Klunaigh took the field. Songs of this battle are still sung on both sides of the Kell/Heirgallad border to this day. It was an epic affair of some hours, in which the two killed a great many spectators with their dervish-like melee. Indeed, King Garamond was struck on the hand and lost 3 fingers by the blade of his own Champion, and Raigth’s son was slain by the thrown axe of his. Despite the collateral injuries, the terms of the dispute were held, and it did not escalate into a free-for-all, though the songs do intone that any lesser Men would have let it devolve. In the end, both Champions killed each other, and the province was declared a neutral ground, on which a great lodge has stood ever since. This battle brought relative peace to the region, and an understanding between those two peoples. Even today, it is not unheard of for challenges to be issued from either side of the border for a duel of champions. Peace there was not absolute though; small scale raiding and skirmishing lasted there for centuries to come.
 
The story of the Battle of Klunaigh and Steadholme is typical of the age. This was an age of fighting and war, and most stories that have survived this time are those of heroic deeds of battle. Many Saints emerged in this heroic time, but one must not get the impression that life was all fighting and glory. In fact, life for almost all people of Avilund was typified by hunger, fear and doubt. That a few brave souls could rise above the pervading squalor and famine of this age to fight the heroic battles for which the age is mostly associated with is worth mentioning, but it should not be confused for the standard of life then.

== The Triumph of Abaddon ==

Towards the edge of this age, Abaddon of Ezlonia was born to a relatively wealthy noble family in Mantlethorn. He became a Knight in the Order of Ulric by the time he was 18, and was an accomplished hero of many battles by the age of 20. He earned his laurels fighting the Kells in the north, but it wasn’t long before he was called to a higher duty; in the service of his order (and, no doubt, pursuing his own family interest) in the north. A group of Collegium scholars and a priest of St. Ignatius put the idea in Abaddon’s head that it would be the noblest of ventures to take the city of Gulfziam (Waldheim) from the Ferals, and he began his own personal campaign to liberate the City. Abaddon laid siege to the City no less than 13 times in as many years, and actually set foot on its hallowed streets a number of times before his final liberation of the City. The life of Abaddon and his conquest of Waldheim is the focus of study for many scholars and historians, and shall not be expanded further within these pages. The author refers the reader to the Holy Repository of the Canon of St. Abaddon in Waldheim, where the deeds of this Saint have been more than adequately recorded and preserved. The conquest of Waldheim begins the two commonly-discussed historical periods; the Saeculum Dominae Humanitas a Avilund, which persists to this day, and the Saeculum Imperiosus Luxamentum Secundus, or the Second Age of Imperial Expansion.

*Forward to Early Late History
*Back to Mezzo Middle History
