Excerpted from Dr. Eustace Worthorpe's History Primer for Students of the Humanities, Lord’s University., 1738 edition.

At the end of the Bloody Revolution, the Empire did indeed come to an end as it was, though the power of the Emperor was not limited to control over the IEV as Prelate Scaerwyn would have wished. All of the Provinces of the Imperial south maintained a non-secular government which ruled pretty much as it had before the Revolution. They simply adopted the title of Bishoprics rather than provinces, with Prelates at the head of the government, instead of the Scion (though orthodox Prelates such as those of Sebald and Mairin still acquiesce to the Scion). These Ecclesiarchies dominate the South. In the Wen and Nith Valleys, the old Imperial provinces became republics and democracies based on the governmental model of the newly formed Republic of Waldheim. The exception is the unique Bishopric of St. Ignatius, which is an ecclesiastic government, but which does not acknowledge the pre-eminence of the Scion as a secular leader. In the Northern provinces, the feudal kingdom again flourished, and the old lines between the kingdoms of Mantlethorne and Heirgallad were again drawn. 

== A New Order ==

This process of choosing governments was not a fast or smooth transition from Imperial Rule. There was turmoil in almost every old Imperial province except for Waldheim, where the Order of Bellwether saw to the peaceful and expeditious creation of the Senate, which promptly elected the three Consuls who form the head of that state. This system of government in Waldheim continues to this day. Senates and Consuls under many different names were put in place in most of the new states of the Wen and Nith Valleys. It is important to note that the Order of Bellwether handed over power completely and permanently to the Senate and the Consuls, and though it still exists today, it is more of a fashionable and mysterious gentleman’s club, rather than a political entity.
 
Though the Placitum a Terminus Potentia stripped the rights of the Scion to intervene in matters of law and government outside of the IEV, placing the right to make government and laws as the people saw fit, it specifically revoked the Prospectus Imperialis ex Daemonica and the Prospectus ex Veneficium, nullifying those laws in all the Lands of Men, in Avilund and the Theatres. This was an important detail of the Placitum; the Ignatians likely knew that in the Imperial south, Non-secular governments and old Imperial hard liners would still back the Scion and rule by His laws. They did not want the Inquisition to walk in any of those lands under any government, and ensured that the faiths of the Collegium would be allowed to flourish in all parts of Avilund, the south included.

== The Saeculum Ingenium Aurum ==
 
This foresight of Prelate Scaerwyn allowed for the flourishing of not only the faiths of the Collegium, but the age known as the Saeculum Ingenium Aurum, which many scholars believe still persists to this day. This Golden age of Invention is typified by a proliferation of education and medicine. Good medicine in the Cities allowed for healthier populations free of plagues and other urban maladies, and the populations again began to rise, though to date they have not risen to the high-water mark of the Pre-First Inquisition Empire. Study of the Culture and Society of the Elders again continued, and Universities were reopened in many cities, Lord’s in Waldheim included (Lord’s had actually reopened its doors in 1347 after the Bellwethers took power). 
 
This age is probably best symbolized by the invention of the Printing press. The first printing press was actually built in the Bishopric of Lysander, in the Abbey of the Artillery, the same abbey of St. Dunstan which is accredited with the creation of gun powder in the late 1200’s. They graciously shared their invention with the faiths of the Collegium, and to date there have been more than a dozen of these wonderful apparati constructed, including Lord’s Press at Lord’s University, upon which this very text was stamped.
 
The spread of education, learning and medicine was fast and had immediate and tangible positive implications for Avilund. However, the spread of Magic did not make the same recovery from the darkness of the Repurgo years and the Inquisitions as did the other disciplines of the Collegium. To this very day, superstition about magic abounds, and just about any magic that is not of Divine Origin (miracles performed by the Saintly) is labelled as ‘Black Faith’ or ‘Black Magic’. The fear of the Inquisitors is still felt to this day. The study of magic, by most reliable accounts, has proliferated to some degree, but its practice is not a matter for public consumption, and public use of magic will more often than land the practitioner of the Art in a great amount of trouble.
 
In fairness to the Masses (ignorant though they be), there remains a large element of the Black Faith in Avilund today. With the end of the authority of the Inquisition, the surviving members of this faith no doubt saw an opportunity to again spread and grow. It is a matter of public fact that the City of Waldheim is home to several sects of the Black Faith, though they are mostly clergied by rogues and well-to-do dilettantes. Some Ignatians, especially those of the Order of the Candle, report an increase in the number of cases of demonic possession and ghostly hauntings since 1348, but this is likely an acceptable and preferable consequence to the ending of the Inquisition. 

== St. Dunstan's Crusade (The Fourth Crusade, 1486 to 1510) ==

 
As the Men of Avilund again took control of their continent, and were prospering and growing, they again began to look to the Holy Theatres. By the late 15th Century, there was a tremendous interest in the Western Theatre especially, as a new and unprecedented level of wealth in the Cities demanded exotic goods and further trade surpluses. Fortunately, Baudri had died long ago, and his son, Eustace Avitus Vanderwail (1350-1510) was a more humanitarian and charismatic Scion, reminiscent of his grandfather, Maiolus. Eustace was known as the Crusading Scion for his initiating the Fourth Crusade.

The political landscape for this Crusade was quite different from those that lead to the earlier Crusades. Where previously genuine Religious interest and the need for more lands for the Second Estate were motivating factors, trade was the catalyst for the Fourth. Of course, Eustace implemented the Crusade in the name of Pilgrimage, and he likely had a genuine interest in the Holy Land, but he undoubtedly was pressured by the Prelates of his neighbours in the south to help them to boost their trade to catch up with the other nations north of the Imperial Septum. The Western Theatre has always been a brass ring of sorts, for it is known to be rich in gold and other valuable trade commodities such as spices and fabrics, and so it was a logical conclusion that the old Imperial south would again benefit from opening the Bellum Via.
 
The Fourth Crusade would be known as St. Dunstan’s Crusade. In 1486, Eustace gave charter to the Ordo Divinius Regimen, the Order of Divine Guidance. This name is not a reference to the guidance of the Saints, but rather to the artillery innovations that the clergy of St. Dunstan were making. Their cannons were already legendary apparati capable of firing huge bombs hundreds of yards at an enemy, and no walls could withstand them. 

=== The Great Rally, 1486 to 1488 ===

Between 1486 and the Autumn of 1488, the city of Lysander again saw its streets choked with men from all over Avilund, as news of the Crusade spread throughout the continent. The Scion took a more organized approach to launching this Crusade than had been previously employed; The ODR traveled through Avilund spreading word that the Crusade would leave on a chosen and specific date; October 31, 1488. This gave the Men of Avilund two years to mobilize, and resulted in a more concentrated and organized beginning to this Crusade. By late Summer of 1488, Lysander was charged with the excitement of 150,000 men from all of the Crusading Orders, and many other groups and organizations besides. Many wealthy merchant companies chartered huge mercenary outfits to go on the Crusade and open new trade routes. From the Northern Kingdoms, both Kings gathered hosts of over 10,000 men each, and pledged them to the service of the Prelate of St. Dunstan, who was the spiritual leader of the Fourth Crusade. The Order of Bellwether provided 5000 men which served under one masked Lord, who himself pledged his services to the Marshal of the Pilgrims of Vander.
 
With all the different groups and their myriad goals and motivations, one would expect that this Crusade would have been doomed from its inception. However, this Crusade was to be different than the last two, which did fail because of the Politics of Men. This time, the Scion himself came to Lysander, and he declared himself High Marshall of the Crusade. He marched at the Van, with the Marshals of the three Crusading Orders and the Kings of the North with him. Such a retinue of powerful men had not been collected together since the defence of the Valdenwail in 450 BC. Though the Marshals of the OCC and the PoV, and the Kings of the North might have had inbred and lasting contention with the Scion as a matter of political tradition, none were able to defy the man in person, and all pledged themselves to him, kissed his ring and conducted themselves most honourably thereafter. 

=== Reclaiming the Bellum Via, 1488 to 1510 ===

On October 31, 1488, the Host of the Fourth Crusade did indeed march out from Lysander and down the Bellum Via. For the next 22 years, the Armies of the Men of Avilund marched ever westward, reclaiming all the old castles of the 3rd Crusade as they did so. This time, they found that the men of the West were more united than before. After the defeat of the Saintly in the West at the end of the 3rd Crusade, the men of the West were unified under the banner of a single leader, and thus the Western Empire, called the Grevusgloom Empire, was born. When the Men of Avilund returned, they found their opponent in a somewhat relaxed state. The first several castles and settlements along the Bellum Via were easily taken, especially with such an enormous Host and the deadly artillery of the Dunstanites. In fact, many capitulated without a single blow falling in anger. Before the New Year, riches were already flowing back over the mountains and into Avilund, and by the Spring of 1489, a second wave of Pilgrims, Crusaders, settlers and merchants were headed into the Western Theatre. In that year, another 40,000 men went into the west, most of which were combatants. However, with the riches that were flowing back by the wagon load, there were many settlers and families of nobles and military leaders coming to make a new and profitable life in the West. Year after year, Avilund sent tens of thousands of people into the West, and new and larger villages and towns sprung up around the Castles of the Bellum Via. Many villages were of mixed races; the people of the Grevusgloom Empire were allowed to keep possession of most of their homes outside of the important castles and strong holds, for the sake of peaceful trading once the war moved past their doorsteps. There are a number of excellent texts about this Crusade, and some very excellent Sociological examinations of the lives of the people of the mixed villages that merit reading and studying. The arrangement was so favourable that it wasn’t long before the Westerners were coming back with some of the caravans and settling in Lysander and some of the other towns of that Bishopric. 

The lives of the Westerners in Avilund were certainly not easy in those early days of the 1490’s. They were clearly identifiable by their darker skin, black hair, dark eyes, strange dress, language and customs. But they adapted to the Culture of Avilund quickly, many flocking to the Canon of St. Sever immediately. Ironically, it is in the City of Lysander, known for its strict religious intolerance that these people thrived the best. In smaller places, they were often accused of being demons and worshipers of the Black Faith and were subject to the same kinds of atrocities that the Inquisition had inflicted just 200 years earlier.
 
In the years between 1488 and 1510 the Crusaders fought westward, and left a wake of trade and new settlements behind them. They managed to get as far as the heart of the Grevusgloom Empire; the City of Grevustople, in the year 1507. This city, at the end of the 2200 mile long Bellum Via was reported to have walls hundreds of yards thick in its vital places, and was garrisoned by an army of 200,000. Though this is likely gross exaggeration, the fact is that the defences were adequate enough to withstand the artillery of the Crusaders, which the Crusading Scion had the bad sense to deploy before he sued for a diplomatic solution. The Siege of Grevustople was laid in December of 1507, and it lasted for 2 years. The entire time, the Crusaders were harried by an Order of Western Knights who bore banners with a black lion, and have thus been called the Order of the Black Lion ever since. This order, like our own Crusading Orders, is a religious fighting unit, and it proved to be a worthy adversary. 

=== The Siege of Grevustople, 1507 to 1509 ===
 
Soon after the siege was laid, and the Black Lion began to harass the Crusaders, the Scion called for reinforcements to be brought up from the rear settlements. By this time, there must certainly have been a half million settlers and soldiers in the West, but they were too concerned with holding and fortifying their lucrative positions in the towns they had taken and settled. Even though such a staggering number of Men of Avilund were in the Theatre at the time, the Scion could muster only 120,000 for the siege of Grevustople, which was insufficient. Finally, in November of 1509, the Scion lifted the siege and made a withdrawal from Grevustople. It is likely that he was being strongly urged by powerful elements in the rear, as they began to enjoy a comfortable and profitable life and didn’t see the need to carry on further west. However, the Scion did not relent, and would not rest. He marched his army around the great city, and continued west, intent on finding the passage to the ocean, which by this time was widely rumoured to exist. The Crusading Army by this time had lost the support of the merchant companies and their valuable mercenaries. The Pilgrims of Vander had also sworn too much of their host to the defence of key settlements along the Bellum Via, and both Northern Kings had settled lands just off of the road and could not provide more than a token host.

=== The Battle of Charne, 1510 ===

It is certain that the Marshals of the OCC and the ODR must have counselled against the passing of the great city without taking it and securing their supply line back to their settlements. The Venerable Crusading Manuals of the OCC instruct against moving beyond the secure supply line of the rear echelons, in both strategic and tactical terms, and to march around Grevustople and leave it between the Scion and his Crusaders and their support to the east was the doom of the Fourth Crusade. Had the timing been different, things might have worked out better. However, a terrible drought in an already-dry climate left the store houses of the villages and towns west of the City nearly empty. The Crusaders were able to conquer town after town with relative ease, but they never found enough food or supplies. Towards the end of the winter, the Crusaders were suffering from hunger and disease, and the Order of the Black Lion could sense that its quarry was weak. On March 11, 1510, the largest military engagement in the history of both Men of Avilund and of Grevusgloom commenced in the doomed city of Charne, which lay 200 miles west of Grevustople. This was another large city of perhaps 40,000, which was easily taken and fortified by the Crusaders, who had some 100,000 men and many engines remaining. Reports had come that the Black Lion had mustered a host of unheard-of size, and was marching to put an end to the Scion and his Crusaders. Indeed, the Black Lion appeared outside the stone city with between 300,000-400,000 men, and they encircled the city and began a ruthless siege. Charne was a city of two great circular walls, one within the other, making two lines of defence. The Crusaders withdrew to the inner wall almost immediately, and the horde of the Black Lion took up in the city around the inner wall soon after. The engines of the St. Dunstan began to dismantle the outer ring of the city immediately, and the losses to the Lion were tremendous. However, their weight of numbers brought them over and through the inner wall, where they fought in close battle on the streets and in the houses and halls of that doomed city. As one hall or large building was taken by the Lion, the Crusaders would direct their artillery at it, destroying it and those inside. This backward and inward creeping obliteration continued all day, until at dusk the last of the Scions host was forced into the castle-hub of the centre of the city, being entirely encircled by their opponents. By this time there were only about 600 Crusaders left beside the Scion, everyone a seasoned and hardened veteran of decades of warfare. They were encircled by about 100,000 Black Lion. There was a brief pause in the fighting, as the Lion was ordered to halt their advance. The Crusaders were lodged in a tough spot, and to root them out would have cost the Lion dearly. However, their general ordered the captured siege engines to be brought up and brought to bear against the walls of the castle in which the Scion and his men were trapped. It had grown dark by this time, but the Lion had great fires light all around the machines in order to display them to their caged-quarry, and the Scion agreed to meet with the general of the Lion to discuss terms.
 
The terms of the Lion were this; The Scion would engage in singular combat against the Lions Champion, a giant named Golgoza. If he won the combat, he and his men could leave peacefully and march wherever they wish in the lands of the Grevusgloom Empire, in search of their passage and their Holy Land. If he lost, his men would be accompanied back eastwards along the Bellum Via, and order every castle and settlement emptied and returned to the Grevusgloom Empire. The negotiations took several hours, and it was agreed that at midnight the battle should commence. The Lion had several artists in their retinue, and the battle between Golgoza and Eustace has been immortalized in several paintings, sculptures, songs and poems. Golgoza was a terrible opponent, being over 10’ tall and muscular like a beast. He used a great heavy cauldron swung on a chain as his weapon. The Scion was a man of usual stature, but his Divine Blood was true, and he was a man of extraordinary strength, speed and stamina. He fought with the heirloom weapon of his family, the ancient axe known as Beighteghar, which before the Fourth Crusade, had not been swung in anger since the 5th century BC.
 
The divine quality of the Scion should have been enough to win this battle, fearsome though Golgoza was. The Scion had bested a number of creatures of the same race as Golgoza over the last couple of decades in the Theatre. However, what was not known to anyone but the Scion himself, was that that Scion had already been fatally wounded during the fighting earlier in the day. He had been stabbed through the back with a terrible Lion blade, which had broken off inside him. This was not revealed until the end of the singular combat. The battle commenced, and the Scion was quick to cut the hamstrings of his large opponent. He took his time racing into to take singular swings at his now-crippled opponent, then quickly charging out of range again. Golgoza managed to strike Eustace twice with his huge cooking-pot-cum-morning-star, and in both instances, the Scion was sent hurtling into the audience, where the men that broke his terrible flight were slain.
 
After the second such flight of the Scion into the crowd, he was slow to recover, and he staggered forward to face his opponent for a final attack. As he raced towards his opponent, onlookers could see that things would end soon; the Scion left a trail of blood from his now-aggravated sword wound on his back that might 

... the manuscript trails off here.

*Back to Middle Late History
