or Profound Insights into the Misleading Traditional Nomenclature of the Arcane and a Thorough Explanation on the Truth of the Matter
 
Penned by Dr. Lucius Gasterbeer, with dissemination authorized by Bishop Treageus Van Thorne, St Anselm’s, Waldheim. (Authorization for mekanikial publication pending).

== Preface ==

To the Reader;

You are no doubt learned enough and connected enough to have this brief paper in your hands. The information provided within is for learned circles only. Though this paper is funditis scriptum verum, there are those in seats both high and low that would perceive much of it’s content as heresy at least, and niger fides at worst. It should not be shared with the general public, or with the substrictus mens regnum. Use this work to greater understand the nature of the Arcane, and to further your own private work.
 
Suscipio Vestri Specialis.
 
LG

== What is commonly thought about ‘Magic’ ==

 
The term ‘magic’ should be reserved for describing the antics of mountebanks and Porters, be they vanishing on stage or robbing someone with a bunko ball and clamshells. ‘Magic’ is also employed by old wives as they brew up noxious drinks for sick grandchildren out of so much pottage and offal. The term ‘magic’ has been used for centuries to lump together these activities with not only our own, bona fide practice, but also with the Black Art as well, so that every party is wronged. ‘Magic’ has been set in contrast to ‘Miracles’, which has served to keep the public wary of any practice of Art save that of the Saintly miracle worker. This author would sooner see ‘miracles’ snared into the damning vernacular net of the term ‘magic’, than have the two separated.
 
The misuse of this term goes even further, however. It has penetrated educated and elite ranks of society, so that even many scrupulous practitioners of Art soil their own practice by proclaiming to be masters of ‘New Magic’. The druids of the north have been said to harness ‘Old Magic’ for so long, that they themselves proclaim it, and thereby do a disservice to themselves and other practitioners besides. Oddly enough, or perhaps not so odd at all, is the fact that miracles used to be called ‘Middle Magic’ in educated circles, but these days it is fides interdicto to call their practice anything but approved terms such as ‘miraclecraft’ or ‘Saint channeling’. One might think this to be a simple semantic nuance of modern theology, but it is more malign that that; these terms are used to further separate what priests do, from what other practitioners do. In fact, we are all just doing the same thing. An explanation follows.

== The True Nature of the Arcane, Miracles, and other Paranormal Phenomena ==

 
It is a simple fact of Science that nothing can happen in the world without having Energy applied to it. Energy is needed to lift a book from a shelf, and to open its pages. Energy is needed to warm a pot of coffee or tea. Energy is needed to create the light that chases away shadow. Energy is needed to levitate a pen, or to make a thing vanish. Energy is needed for a Spectre to stay in this world and walk among us. Though practitioners of the Art and Miracle workers alike do astounding things, we are all bound by this simple law that Men of Science have discovered. The smoke-belching machine of the engineer, the flaming sphere of the Arcanist, and the healing hands of the saintly priest all require energy to do the amazing things they do; the difference is where the energy comes from. 
 
A taxonomy for energies is a difficult thing to codify, and though I shall try here, the very notion of energy being a classifiable thing, like so many butterflies or flowers, is new and contentious, and will no doubt see great debate, and, hopefully, refinement.

== Kingdoms of Energy ==

 
Energy is divided first into the Kingdoms of the Mundane and the Arcane. Mundane energy is that which is found in our limbs to do work, or in the power of gravity to move rivers, and countless other common things besides. This publication will deal with the other Kingdom, that of the Arcane.
 

=== Families in the Arcane Kingdom ===

The Arcane Kingdom can be further broken down into three Families. These families include the following; Elemental, Extraterrestrial, and Vital. All forms of arcane energy can be grouped into one of these three categories. To date there is not an exception to this phylogeny. 

==== The Elemental Family ====

The Elemental family is fairly easy to understand; its taxonomy has not changed in centuries. We still understand that there are four principal members of this family; Fire, Water, Earth, and Air. The elemental family is unique in the Arcane Kingdom because its families are represented both in the Mundane and Arcane Kingdom. One does not need to be convinced that there is a force called ‘fire’, after one has left his boots too near the hearth to dry. However, the essence of these elements is something that can be refined and mastered, and it is hypothesized that there are elemental planes of existence, from which these refined forms of the elements are harnessed. Though practitioners of the Art who harness these elements are rare, the Druids of the North can certainly employ them. Though fire is a relatively simply element to harness, and it has been used for terrible and destructive means in the past, today relatively few practitioners make use of it, as it is unsubtle and dangerous.

==== The Extraterrestrial Family ====
 
This family is the one most commonly encountered today. As its name implies, this family is concerned with energy that comes from outside our world. Most commonly, these energies come from Celestia, in the form of Saint Channeling, or Miracles, or what-have-you. These otherworldly places are rich in energy, and they are able to lend their energies to those able to harness or call them in our world. Again, the most common users of this type of energy are the Saintly, as they call upon the blessings of the Saints. Many Arcanists, including the learned and professional ranks of my colleagues employ this family of energy. The spells that we employ are simply conduits for bringing energy from other worlds or planes; it is suspected that the Elders and the spells of theirs that we still know, harness energy from Celestia. There are other worlds and planes that can be sources of energy as well, such as the Etherial, the Moon and the Sun (the two later of which are nominally tied to the realms of Celestia and the Abyss). 
 
It is the calling for energy from the Abyss which earns the title ‘Black Art’, and which brings so much confusion, misinformation and infamy to our profession. There are certainly those among the good citizens of the Republic and places further abroad who are calling for power from the Abyss, naming demons, devils and Black Saints alike to further their malignant cause, but they are few. However, their nefarious practice and deeds become the stuff of public terror and irrevocable legend, and so we are all wronged by their misdeeds. In truth of taxonomy, though, there is actually very little difference between what a Priest does when he works his ‘miracle’, and what the Black Priest does when he works his ‘curse’. They are both borrowing energy from without our world.

==== The Vital Family ====

This family is little-employed in the modern age by all but the most antiquarian of practitioners, and rare and dangerous monsters hiding in the remotest shadows of our civilization. The Vital family is simply that which includes the energies of life and undeath. It is important to note here that for taxonomical purposes, ‘death’ is the complete absence of energy. Life and undeath are two opposed energies that fill the material world, and are constantly in struggle with each other. 
 
Life energy is something which every living thing possesses, and which can be harnessed and manipulated by the qualified practitioner. The Druids of the North are known to still harness this energy, especially where nature is concerned. Thusly, they are the only known practitioners who borrow from two different families of arcane energy regularly. There are some rare practitioners of Learned Art who also know an obscure spell or two which involves this family, but they are rare.
 
Undeath energy, likewise, is found in all undead things, from zombies to spectres. Like Life energy, only a few undead creatures are able to master it; the zombie has no domain over the undead energies that sustain him. However, there are undead creatures which can use this energy as a tool or a weapon, such as the life-draining spectre. As with Life energy, there are living practitioners who can harness Undeath energy, and again, these men are rare and dangerous.
 
It should be noted at this point that the debate on the balance of Life and Undeath energy in the world continues to this day, with no foreseeable end in proximity. This author does not subscribe to the theory that Life and Undeath energy exists in balance, but will not go into this debate in any great detail, except to say that there has never been a City as populous as Waldheim built by zombies, and rightly so.
