The Repurgo Imperialis, also known as the Cleansing, was an anti-intellectual movement started by a sect of monks, and it became quite violent and bloody. For 200 years, the Empire was seized by terror, as roaming bands of these monks and their followers hunted down scholars, mages, historians, and countless other people they found suspect. Though this movement was not sanctioned or officially endorsed by the Scion, it was suspected that he did motivate and encourage it through his Inquisitors. During this time, most of what had been recovered from the Elder cities had been destroyed, lost or hidden. Knowledge had plunged into the Dark Age.

In 1210, the Casparian Monk David of Sandalstone arrives on the set of History. He had taken the Rule of St. Caspar into a perverted context which suggested that all learning and records were heresy and an affront to St. Avitus and the Saintly Faith. His misinterpretation of the Rule could not have been planted in more fertile soil. Though the rivers of blood and mountains of corpses left behind by the First Inquisition had vanished over the previous 200 years, their memory was fresh, and the terror they left behind just as sharp and clear as it was when Kerrigan walked in Avilund. Adding to this was the fact that society had not been much improved by the end of the Inquisition, which was largely blamed on the Black Faith, and those who supported it. The list of Black Faith supporters was of varying length, depending on what region one takes into account, and the level of education of the interpreter. However, it was not difficult to convince the simple folk of those unenlightened days that the Clerk or the Money Lender to which they were heavily indebted had much to do with the Black Faith. David had a natural talent for identifying enmity in a new village, and was quick to orate to the poor masses and turn them against the objects of their enmity. By 1212, the Casparians were in every province of the Empire, setting entire libraries and schools to the torch, and stringing up those learned men which they perceived to be members of the Black Faith. Just about everyone who could read was a target of the Casparians, and in this time, having followed a long and bloody period of purgation of the educated elite, the illiterate were legion, an angry and armed legion. The Repurgo seemed especially focused on destroying such things as maps and instruments and records of navigation. So it was that the Canon of St. Caspar and St. Ignatius came to an irreconcilable conflict which persists to this day. This conflict is the first open non-secular internecine conflict of the Saintly Faith, and it was this conflict that drew the attention of the Scion.

The Repurgo ended in 1348, with the Revolution. Organized resistance to the Repurgo was formed, and a group of masked lords in the City declared themselves free of the Scion’s will. From there, Revolution spread, and a great war was fought between two factions; the men of the traditional-minded South, and the men of the revolutionary North. In the end, the forces from the North, among them the army of the newly formed Republic of Waldheim, marched upon the Valdenwail. They were never able to breach the great Hedge of the Valdenwail, but a peace was signed, and the Scion relinquished control of the lands north of the Imperial Septum (a range of mountains that separates the two regions). It was at this point that the Empire fragmented into a dozen smaller countries, forming roughly the contemporary political boundaries.

While the countries south of the Imperial Septum have all remained theocracies, most in the north have evolved into republics and the like. In the very far north, feudal kingdoms are the norm.
