{{Monocle|June|30|1750|Evening}}

{{monoclepage|1|2}}

===Food Shortages Worsen with Conclave Population Problem===

It is not news that as the quantity of food in our fair City continues to diminish along with its quality, the price continues to rise. The octogenarians of the City often wax nostalgic about the abundance of fresh produce, meat, game and fish that used veritably to choke a dozen or more markets in the City. Our parents and grand parents lament the bounties that the Republic once enjoyed, and the fair prices, peerless quality and myriad delicacies once available at every corner of the City of the Republic. However, City officials and demographers indicate that the flow of people into our City from the countryside has had a doubly-negative consequence; that the farmers that once provided food in the countryside are now working here rather than plying their ascribed trade in the soil, which causes both greater demand for food here, and less supply all at once.

The problem has been made worse with the 333rd sitting of Conclave in Waldheim. This Conclave has drawn as large a host as any can recall, with some estimates at over 35,000 extra people quartered within the City, and that many again anticipated to arrive later in the Summer. Most of these people do not bring food in adequate supply for the protracted business of Conclave, and rely upon the ever-diminishing supply of the City. With the added foreign mouths to feed, food has become more expensive than ever recorded. A loaf of bread which cost 3 pennies last year, costs a shilling today. A ploughman’s lunch public-bought cost 5 pennies last year, but costs as much as 2 shillings today. Housewives can sell a glass of bad beer and a cup of pottage for 10 pennies in any quantity they can produce.

As it is early in the growing season now, there is understandably less fresh food available than there might be a month from now. Prognostications from Planter’s Hall suggest a reasonable growing season this year, but many would agree that we are but a bad harvest away from a difficult time.

With a reduction in availability of food, and an increase in cost, it is only natural that the meaner elements of the city, many foreigners included, have resulted to criminality in order to fill their bellies. While Conclave drives up the population of the City, and usually crime by a correlated amount, there are more reports of petty thefts and pick pocketing than is usual even for this per lustrum event. There are more reports of other sorts of crimes relating to provisioning as well; cargo hijacking, violent threats and thefts, organized crime and many other nefarious deeds besides. In fact, it seems as though the criminal element may be making out as well as the agricultural lords that continue drive up the prices of the diminishing food supply.

Need is often the author of invention, and the need for food in our City has authored many culinary innovations, most of which would be subcomestible for all but the baser sort of people in normal times, but are now employed in the kitchens of even respectable homes of gainfully employed families. The observant reader will have noticed a conspicuous lack of the baying of dogs in our City of late, and the absence of rodents and other vermin in their usual abundance. Any new dishes on the menu of your local public house should be ordered with caution.

===Prelate of Saint Ignatius Finally Arrives at Conclave===

Prelate Calvin van Miserly (St. Ignatius) arrived on June 28th to sit Conclave in the City. The Prelate and his sizeable retinue of over 1000 scholars, theologians, bureaucrats and attendants normally arrives in the early spring, but their arrival months later than usual for this 333rd Conclave is unusual and much speculated at. The Monocle made inquiries at the Seminary and Cathedral of St. Ignatius here in the City as to the reason for the uncommon delay, but was provided with no formal answer.

It has long been rumoured that Sablemaul Vanderwail, younger brother of Scion Nilus Avitus Vanderwail, has been ensconced in the Seminary in the remote Ecclesiarchy of St. Ignatius for several years, possibly decades, and that he may be coming to this Conclave. Reasons for his possibly coming to this Conclave are also widely speculated over, but there is no official acknowledgement of any possible agenda, or even a confirmation of the younger Vanderwail’s residency at the Seminary.

It is commonly known that the protracted estrangement of the Southern Ecclesiarchies from the Northern Republics and Democracies is largely fueled by the animosity between the Canon of St. Ignatius and that of St. Avitus. However, what is news is that among the record setting attendance of Conclave participants, there are countless whisperings that the Scion and his brother may be meeting at the 333rd. The purpose of such a meeting, be it for the furtherance of unity, the furtherance of division, or some other agenda as yet unguessed, is unclear to the Monocle.

Answers to these Imperial questions will not be forthcoming soon; the van of the hosts coming from the Southern Ecclesiarchies is reported to be assembling south of the Imperial Septum, which means that those hosts will not be in the City before August at the earliest. Some reports indicate that there may be as many as 40,000 people in that great host. While the hosts north of the Imperial Septum have been trickling into the City piecemeal since late March, the combined hosts of the South will likely arrive at once in great fashion, as is their wont.

The first of the Undecuria Caelestis will be held on July 4th. The great parade into the City from Lord’s Road, across Bride’s Bridge and through Cardigan’s Gate is slated to begin at 10 AM, terminating at the Imperial Square around 1 PM. With a record number of attendants of Conclave in the City, this parade is expected to be a chaotic affair. The informed reader will wisely leave his pocket book and other pinchables at home.

===Terror in the Fleet!===

Yesterday, another body was found in a back alley in The Fleet, clearly another victim of the terrible creature that has been rending bodies into bits with monstrous claws and chewing them up with a devilish maw. This particular victim, the tenth bearing identical mutilations and predations in the last month, is as yet unidentified, but seems to be a foreigner, possibly a boatman from up the Nith.

The horrible ruination visited upon the victims is clearly the doing of a being stronger and angrier than a Man. While there are abundant rumours about the possible nature of the creature that has been terrorizing The Fleet, there has been but one credible eye-witness to these murders; Captain Jack Ainsworth, a barge runner of some 40 years experience, saw one of his deck hands mutilated by the creature last week, as they were returning from a night of festivities at several establishments along Scuttle Street. Stopping in an alley to see to their bladders, they were set upon by a creature that sprung at them from behind some refuse. The creature managed to reduce its victim to a grisly stack of gnawed parts in less than a minute. Captain Ainsworth provided a description of the beast, and a Monocle artist has rendered an image of the thing.
center|350px|thumb|Artist's sketch of the Fleet Horror

The creature remains at large, seemingly sticking to The Fleet. It seems to kill and feed about every two or three nights. Constables in The Fleet have employed help from the XII Royal Regiment to patrol during the dark hours of night, and Alderman Verenus assures the Monocle that the capture and destruction of this mindless and ruthless beast is imminent.

{{monoclepage|2|3}}

===Imperial Navy under Reconstruction?===

Well, not quite. Many observant readers will have noticed the activity in The Fleet over the last few months, and the tremendous floes of logs coming down the Wen, arriving at the formerly-deserted shipyards. Indeed, scores of vagrants were uprooted from their previously inviolable residency in the shipyards, which had not heard the sound of a saw or a hammerfall for decades. However, the bones of three large ships can now be seen to be coming together in the old shipyards, as hundreds of workers, many of them foreigners, working like so many ants, crawl all over them. Construction on the three large ships started last fall, and has progressed to such a point that the general dimensions of these prodigious vessels can now be ascertained. The largest of the three will be over 400’ long and 80’ wide, and appears to have 5 or more decks. The Monocle spoke to Dr. Wesley Huntingdon, Naval Historian at Lord's University. Dr. Huntingdon informed the Monocle that this ship will be the largest ever built by the hands of men, and that its two smaller siblings, at over 300’ each, have not seen ships of a like size built by men in over 400 years. Dr. Huntingdon says that these ships would have been called ‘ships-of-the-line’ in the golden days of the Imperial Navy, but that the larger is without historic parallel.

The story of these three ships seems to have started in November of 1748, when a Feral pirate ship foundered on the coast in the Bay of St. Barnabas. Through some unknown misadventure, the wicked ship had her crew nearly destroyed to the last, and was driven ashore. She was quickly boarded by the Royal Regiment of St. Barnabas, her last remaining crew put to death. The ship was investigated by the Royal Regiment, and shortly thereafter by the Clergy of St. Ignatius. It turns out that the vessel was carrying slaves or prisoners that were Men, though they bore strange tattoos in a language only half familiar to our own. Unfortunately, they had been executed by the malignant crew previous to her boarding by the Regiment, and could offer no explanation about their origins.

There were, however, maps aboard the vessel that were taken by the Ignatians, and it is rumoured that those bore the location of the Eastern Archipelago, or some of the Ancient Colonies, or both. At any rate, the maps, and some artifacts found on the boat generated quite an interest in where this peccant vessel had been, and what possible links it might have with the Colonies of the Empire. Though the arrival of this ship generated many questions, there was one hard fact; it had been to an island somewhere, and captured some of our long-lost cousins from across the sea.

These discoveries have lead, by a long and circuitous route, to the construction of the three boats in the Yards. The story of their conception, design and funding is a long and complicated one, but the informed reader need know only this; that the project is funded by no other than Consul Jack Spinner as a Private Venture. Consul Spinner would not divulge so much as the names of the ships to the Monocle, but the personable Consul did imply that details would be provided for the public soon, and in a ‘fashion befitting such an historic event’.

The trio of mighty sailing vessels that are now being brought to life in the Yards under the public’s auspices are generating no end of rumour, gossip and speculations. Consul Spinner and his legion of workers and aides remain, to the man, tight lipped about the Venture. However, Cardinal Castigan of St.Ulric’s, Waldheim had this to say about the Venture; “We, Men of Avilund, came here from across the great waves. We have sailing in our Blood, and it is well-past time for us to return to the waters and claim mastery of them again. We owe it to our selves, and we owe it to our estranged brothers in lands distant and forgotten.”

It should be noted that these ships will be the private property of Consul Spinner, and not part of the Royal Fleet. ‘Midshipmen’ awaiting their punitive term of service on board a Royal Fleet vessel will not be called up soon.

===666th Sitting of the Black Conclave Suspected===

The auspicious number of this lustrum’s Conclave, 333, has many people suspicious of a sitting of the cabalistic Black Conclave. Nefarious deeds seem to happen in the City every time Conclave sits; The Pondluck Massacre of 1695 is a difficult thing for many to forget, and a score of other terrible deeds can be remembered from any Conclave year in memory or history. These deeds have long contributed to the belief that there is a Black Conclave that sits concomitantly with the Saintly Conclave, and further, that many supposedly Saintly clergy that come to Conclave are sitting at both.

Since late February of this year, there has been a marked increase in murders and other violent and egregious crimes. Bodies have been turning up in Severn Harbour with troubling frequency, and the authorities in those parishes which border the harbour all report signs of ceremonial torture and murder on the bodies; strange words carved into the faces and backs, organs removed, and other nasty business besides.

The Monocle interviewed Dr. Malregard, Steward of St. Gideon’s Hall (the City’s busiest charnel house) and Master Surgeon of the Royal Company of Physicians and Surgeons, to learn some tangible facts about the deaths in the City. Dr. Malregard indicated that the City produces an average of 14 corpses per night during the late Spring in most years, but this year he is routinely having 20-30 delivered every morning. His role as City Medical Investigator is overburdened given this increase in deaths. “There’s just no ... way I can get to examining all the questionable cases,” the Dr. told the Monocle. “Some people are just plain going to get murdered and [nothing can be done] to find out who they are or how it happened.”

The Doctor also confirmed the presence of ritual markings on many corpses. There are clearly some Black Ceremonies being carried out in our City at night. The question is whether this amounts to an organized ‘Black Conclave’, or whether this is just a bunch of separate cults acting independently at an opportune time for them. With the City being overcrowded as it is with foreigners who are ostensibly Saintly men and women, one is forced to wonder if some haven’t come with a darker agenda. One might also wonder if it is rather our own local villains who see opportunity in the large population influx; there are both victims and scapegoats to spare just now.

With the bulk of the Conclave host yet to arrive, and the greater portion of time remaining for Conclave, one would presume that things will get worse, and more bodies will be found in the months to come. The Monocle advises the cautious reader to avoid the darker corners and streets of the City at night.

===Lethal Disease Baffles Fellows of St. Gratus===

Doctors all over the City have been seeing patients with a new form of disease which has been killing people by the score every week for the past 6 months. The disease is a form of malignant bloody flux, which has been named Canaan’s Flux by the Royal Company of Physicians and Surgeons. Victims of the Flux seem to die a messy, lingering death about two weeks after the first sign of the disease, which is frequent and painful bloody flux.

After dozens of cases had been seen by the Doctors of the City in the middle of February, it was decided by the Royal Company that a special ward would be appointed for the victims of the disease. A fine villa in Methwold was purchased by the Royal Company with funding by many of the victims and their estates. The disease seems to strike mostly those of the middling class, whose money has gone a long way towards providing comfort for the doomed, if not a cure. The decision to have the patients isolated up in Methwold was a deliberate one. Dr. Dwimsburry, Master of the Royal Company and the Chief Investigator into this disease told the Monocle that in February, it was worried that the disease was highly contagious, and that the patients should be isolated as much as possible, while still keeping them within the City, within reasonable distance to the Hospice of St. Gratus in Lord's. At this time, however, Dr. Dwimsburry claims that the disease does not seem to be passed from person to person. The source of the sickness is still a matter for Dr. Dwimsburry’s investigation.

Canaan’s Flux killed 122 people during the month of May this year, Dr. Dwimsburry informed the Monocle. “They are mostly of the middling sort of people” the Doctor explained “and the Flux’s proclivity for successful merchants, lawyers and doctors has more than once had us thinking that there is something more sinister than just a disease at work here.” The Doctor went on to explain that the disease does in fact claim a good number of the servant class as well. In fact, some servants of victims of the disease have contracted the disease shortly after their master has perished.

At this time there are no answers coming from the Medical Society of the City as to the origin of this disease, or the means to combat it. As this article is written, there are over 300 victims of the disease ensconced in the Canaan’s Flux Ward in Methwold. None are expected to live past two weeks.
center|250px|thumb|Another victim of Canaan's Flux. How many will perish?

{{monoclepage|3|3}}

===Crime and Punishment===

by Private Submission

If the lawyers, Justices and Magistrates haven’t got the legal system in enough of a befuddling state for all but the most learned scholar of jurisprudence to understand, it has become even more nuanced with the recent introduction into Case Law of the sentencing of ‘Transportation’. Last week nearly a dozen criminals tried by Magistrate Overholden in The Fleet and found guilty of a number of crimes both great and small, were sentenced to Transportation. These criminals will be held in the Fleet Stocks until such time as the ships of the Private Venture of Consul Spinner are set to sea. These criminals will serve as Indentured Hands under complete obedience to the Captain of whatever ship they are sentenced to. Further, it is intended that they will be deposited on the shores of whatever lands the ships may find, presumably to colonize, or recolonize, any suitable lands that might be discovered. They are not to return to the shores of Avilund under pain of death, once they set to sea.

All of the convicted are people of small or no means, and it is not anticipated that their convictions will be appealed to the Court of Common Council. If their convictions are left unchallenged for one year, then the decisions will be entered into Case Law, and the sentence given its legal authority. It seems unlikely at this time that anyone will provide for the appeal of the convicted, and it is further unlikely that any others will be sentenced thusly. If these sentences can go unchallenged for a year, the powerful and entrepreneurial Consul will have no difficulty finding ‘willing’ hands to carry out his latest Venture.

It should be observed that the Consul’s ships are privately owned, and are not a part of the Navy. As such, this sentencing by the Fleet Magistrate is unprecedented in its condemning of prisoners to a private doom. Thus far there has been no outcry for the doomed criminals; part of this silence is no doubt owed to the reprehensible nature of the criminals, and partly because of the confusion that initially surrounded the pronouncement of the new sentence by Magistrate Overholden.

Just when we thought the dodgy affairs of The Fleet were limited to the privileged gentlemen who receive sentences as midshipmen in the ‘Royal Navy’, it seems it has managed to branch out in its corruption to employ the convicted poor as pawns in a game of the potting rich.

— Fitzroy Grafton Dekker

===Pilgrims of Vander seen on Dunstan’s Range – Fifth Crusade Imminent?===

On June 26th, a large group of Pilgrims of Vander were seen observing the artillery exercises on Dunstan’s Range on the Green. The Ordo Divinius Regimen, the Crusading Order of St. Dunstan established in 1486 to carry out the Fourth Crusade under the Crusading Scion, Eustace, has been drilling every week for the last few months, and their ranks have been swelling somewhat as the Conclave Host assembles in the City. It is unknown how long the Pilgrims have been in town, but their appearance on the field with their sometimes-rival Crusading Order in a seemingly official capacity represents the first open congregation of these two Orders in nearly 200 years. This has led, as one would imagine, to much speculation and rumour.

center|250px|thumb|The Crusading Order of St. Dunstan in a candid moment, captured by the Monocle's own staff engraver

The Monocle approached High Marshall Frederick Von Bruuck at Dunstan’s Tower in Elderton, inquiring about the renewed bolstering of the ranks, the increased drilling and the convening of the Crusading Orders. The High Marshall stated flatly that “The Pilgrims will be in the City through much of Conclave; we simply invited them to observe some of our new artillery in action.” The High Marshall denied any plans for campaign with or without the Pilgrims, but stated also that we wouldn’t reveal any such plans if there were any.

While there are always a handful of Pilgrims maintaining their Order’s Castle and other buildings in St. Pitt's, and keeping up relations with the church of St. Ulric (the Order’s Patron) in the City, the large host seen on the Green, and the buzz of activity in the mostly forlorn castle indicates that the Order has some new agenda in the City. It is likely connected to Conclave, but there have been suggestions that they may have something to do with the naval developments in the Yards. Consul Spinner's dedication to Ulric is widely known, and the appearance of Ulric’s Knights in conjunction with the development of Spinner’s Ships has been connected by many.

The Monocle attempted to gain access to the Marshall in the Order’s Castle in Pitt's, but was rebuked firmly.

Amateur prognosticators and paranoid citizens alike have suggested that there are many signs pointing to the possibility of another Crusade being launched; a conspicuously numbered Conclave assembling, rumours of the meeting of the estranged Imperial Brothers, ships being built in the harbour, knights seemingly preparing for war, and many other things besides. Though all these signs would indicate that something might be afoot, one must remember that every Conclave is fraught with rumours of this epic variety, and there haven’t been any such apocalyptic happenings in the last couple hundred years at any rate.

===Orders from the Lord Mayor and Court of Common Council for ‘Mercy’ Ignored===

On February 1st, a meeting of the Court of Common Council, Lord Mayor Rowan and a selection of ecclesiastic officials took place at the Court of St. Kez in Elderton. The meeting was also witnessed and periodically interrupted by numerous significant and influential Aldermen, Justices and jurists of the City. The meeting was prompted by the Republic Ecclesiastic Council, who wished to request a stay of executions for all criminals convicted of suitable crimes, until the adjournment of Conclave.

The Ecclesiastic Council made a case for the preservation of the souls of the convicted during Conclave, stating that it would be both politically and spiritually impertinent to carry out capital punishments during this time. Bishop Madison (St. Sever) stated that “the eyes of the Saints and the Old Empire will be upon our City for the next several months, and we must show our quality by granting temporary mercy for the condemned.”

This motion was opposed by many of the spectators at the meeting, who oft turned the proceedings into discordant shouting, the likes of which are usually reserved for the arena and the cattle auctions. Many were opposed to the maintenance of these convicted criminals, as it would be at expense to the parish or the ward jails. Many voiced opposition based upon grounds more noble than coin; Justice Murklinger of St. Pitt's Ward Court protested exuberantly, claiming that “the laws of this Republic, and of this City, and of my Ward, and of my Parish, are free from canonical laws, and rightly so; the forefathers of this Republic bore arms against the absentee 'Saintly' Tyrant hundreds of years ago so that we might live under sensible laws today. I’ll not tarnish that by endorsing or abiding this canonical intrusion into otherwise secular laws!”

Further objections were raised on more dubious but interesting grounds. It has been claimed that several of the condemned are indebted to the Church of St. Sever, and that there would be no hope for remuneration of those debts if the executions are not stayed for a time. As it happens, the motion was passed, and there are to be no executions in the City of Waldheim until December 25 of this year.

This ruling has had no bearing on the fates of the condemned in some wards. The wards of Chapelton, Waverleigh and Pondluck have maintained their status as individual towns for many legal and taxation matters, even though they have been surrounded by the City and given Ward status for over a century. Executions in these three Wards are not governed by the rulings of the February 2nd proceedings. In Waverleigh and Pondluck, the Magistrates have stayed execution for all but the most blackened villains, but in Chapelton it is business as usual for the gallows. It has been reported by more benign and merciful Justices that some Wards have been transporting criminals from ostensibly overcrowded jail houses to the comparatively vacant Chapelton Tower (the Ward Jail), where Magistrate Victor Horus has reversed those stays.

It is rumoured that the Royal Company of Cordwainers will be relocating their guildhouse to St. Cardigan’s Under Cross parish in Chapelton.

===Panoply of Primogeniture (The Dukes’ Procession)===

The Order of Bellwether hereby makes their principal pronouncement for planned festivities on the Feast of St. Sebald (July 1st) this Summer, and for the Dukes’ Procession following thereafter.

The bridges to Sebald's and Elder Isle shall be closed on the Eve of the occasion, and shall admit by ticket starting at sunrise of the Feast. The Traditional Observances for the Faithful will be held at the Canonically and Inviolably Appointed times at the Cathedral of St. Avitus, then the Cathedral of St. Sebald.

At 8 Bells, the Public Observances shall be held in the Imperial Square, where Arch Bishop Saxbury will deliver Sebald’s Address.

At 9 Bells, the gates of Elder Isle shall be opened to ticket bearing communicants who may take position on the Laurus Via to witness the Triumph of Sebald, and receive gifts and blessings in return for obeisance. The Triumph will make the Quinque Ambitus on the Laurus Via at 10 bells, and retire at Noon.

At 2 Bells of the afternoon, the Triumph will again assemble, and after another invocation from the Arch Bishop, commence the Humilis Propono, passing into the City, and taking the appointed route - maps of this year's route will be posted in every parish five days before the parade. Gifts and blessings will be offered to the obeisant citizens who observe the Humilis Propono in proper fashion.

At 6 Bells, the final invocation will be given in the Imperial Square by the Arch Bishop, followed by his prayers over King Goering and the Five Dukes. Goering will then address his people, and give Assent to the Nobles and the Royal Companies. At 8 Bells, King Goering and the Dukes will mount up, and lead the Emineo Propono (Duke's Parade) out of the Imperial Square in grand fashion.

The Duke's Parade will take its appointed route through the City, inspiring all the anticipated reverence and revelry, spreading both merriment and observance for St. Sebald to his Faithful Following, their charges and celebrants. The Parade will terminate, for the Common People, at Sebald's Gate. The Procession will continue past the gates and back to Elder Isle, where the Parade will terminate ultimately in the Imperial Square at 12 Bells.

All are welcome to witness the benevolence of St. Sebald and his Faithful Leaders, and to pay obeisance and receive gifts on the Parade Routes. Tickets for the Quinque Ambitus can be purchased for 25s. at the Cathedral starting today. Those welcome to the Emineo Propono Terminus are known.

{{monoclepage|4|3}}

===Order of the Candle Intervenes in Demon Hunt===

For several months now, the Scourge of Black’s Road has been claiming a human victim every week, and slaughtering cattle and other animals nightly. The creature was identified in February beyond any doubt as a Demon, and has attracted numerous Private Demon Hunters who seek both to further Goode in our Fair City, and to claim the 1000s reward posted by the Ward. Many of the Demon’s victims have included these adventurers.

After months of terror, the Order of the Candle, the Investigative Order of St. Ignatius, dispatched an agent to pursue this monster. The Monocle caught up with this agent, Brother Mazius Eckersdoom, at the Staggering Bishop on Black’s Road on June 27th. Brother Mazius and a small retinue have traveled from St. Ignatius Ecclesiarchy after having been requested by Bishop Adhemar to assist the local authorities. Adhemar would not divulge any of his plans or strategies, but did say that he suspected the demon “...of being possessed of great intelligence, though this intelligence is blunted with the cresting of its hunger and blood lust; it is in this dim and dangerous state that we will capture the monster.”

To date, the Scourge has taken at least twenty human victims, and hundreds of animals. It has not been seen, but it does leave man-sized booted tracks. Its victims seem to be mutilated by either sharp claws or perhaps a cruel and unusual dagger. The mutilations and predations upon the victims are so severe, that even seasoned constables in Black’s Road are visibly troubled by the ruined corpses of the hapless victims. Brother Mazius seems accustomed to this level of carnage, however, and resolutely leads his cadre of Demon Hunters in this dire endeavour.

The Monocle advises its careful readers to avoid unlit portions of Black’s Road after dark.

===‘Shareholders’ Paid Unparalleled ‘Dividend’ by North West Venture Company===


Some of those who have gambled their fortunes in the New Finance were rewarded for their investments last week. The North West Venture Company, which gathers and ships minerals, timber and other frontier-goods from the wilderness around Havilah, to our City, paid ‘shareholders’ 16s6d per share last week, after revenues from spring sales were realized. Shares were initially sold in 1748 for 5s/share, and were being sold until February of this year for 45s/share. The president of NWVC, Gorgon Skethwick, was interviewed by the Monocle in his well-appointed office on Coffee Street in the Spit. Mr. Skethwick claims that the Company has sold thousands of shares, with the Company holding little more than half of them. Mr. Skethwick says that stocks can be purchased at his office on Coffee Street any time, and to beware any stocks sold by the stock jobbers of Carriage Street and less reputable locales.

Forgeries of Stock Certificates have plagued the New Finance since it started issuing them. There are stocks circulating for companies and ventures that simply don’t exist, and forgeries for real, accomplished companies. In all cases, the buyer must be careful. The greater portion of risk is found in buying legitimate stock for companies that are legitimately failing, which again, the buyer must account for before purchase.

Mr. Skethwick offered the following advice to the Monocle, with regards to the purchase of Stock; Buy from the company office, when possible, avoiding jobbers on the streets. Use a reputable intercessor when possible, and only one with an office, again, avoiding those that operate from a case on a street. And finally, avoid any jobbers that make promises that seem uncommonly alluring. The Monocle must endorse this advice for the benefit of our financially-adventurous readers.
