SebaldExcerpted from An Account of The Lives of the Imperial Saints, by Dr. Archibald Beaumont. First Edition Published, 1698.

~

Saint Sebald was the younger of Severinius and Ida's two sons. Like his elder brother Dunstan, he was a half-man, half-angel Celestialspawn. Upon the death of Severinius, he was acclaimed chieftain of the clan and proclaimed the second Scion of Saint Avitus. Under Sebald's long rulership, the ideas behind the Primus Deus Fidelis as they relate to the relationship of Heaven and Hell began to take shape. Many scholars proclaim Sebald to be the true originator of the religion. While Severinius might have received the word from his father by way of Ida, and then enshrined it in the mysterious Canon of Saint Avitus, it is Sebald who really gave birth to the idea of a new way of thinking about man's relationship with death and the afterlife. With his warrior brother, Dunstan, at his side, Sebald is also credited with being the proper founder of the Empire as he sought to conquer and assimilate the neighbouring villages, clans and tribes.

Most historians also believe that Sebald chose the site for the current castle, and residence of the Scions, known as the Valdenwail, and that he erected the first permanent structure on that site.

Sebald's is an odd canon. He is considered more of a historical, or political, figure, rather than a religious one, and seems to have obtained his sainthood only by dint of heredity and not through any special deeds or merit. Indeed, it is this fact which is often referred to as the true origin of the tradition of a hereditary Scion as head of the church and of the Empire.

He is possessed of no true organised followers in modern times, though he is still seen as a patron of the nobility and of the right of inheritance. There are no organised monasteries of Sebald, though there are a few societies and knightly orders in his honour. However, these are more akin to exclusive clubs restricted to only those of noble birth and those possessing celestial blood, than they are to true religious orders.
