thumb|right|300px|A likeness of Sister Agatha held by Gratian Sisters

Sister Agatha of Maxton is the author of the notorious compendium, Lives of the Most Blessed Imperial Saints.

The original version of this book, written by an aged and cloistered nun was considered to be a manuscript of pure blasphemy. 

Sister Agatha claimed that in a sequence of dreams she was shown the true origins of the Saintly Faith, and had observed the birth and lives of the major Saints in the Republic’s history. All this Sister Agatha dutifully recorded in meticulous detail over a period of nearly eight years. The text, as shown to her Matron, left most who read it aghast. Rumour has it that Sister Agatha’s Lives of the Saints, had it been allowed to be published, would have turned the entire Saintly Faith on its head. 

Before it could be published however, the text was delivered to Dr. Archibald Beaumont, Dean of Saint Avitus, who immediately ordered that all who had read or come in contact with the manuscript be imprisoned for life. Or so the rumour goes. 

Stories of the unseen text ran like wildfire through ecumenical and academic circles, fuelling thoughts of conspiracy and worse. So damaging was the gossip and misinformation surrounding Sister Agatha’s manuscript, that Dr Beaumont finally ordered its wide publication and dissemination. The resulting text was a huge disappointment for all. 

What it contained was simply a series of abridged biographies that did not deviate from the accepted church dogma by even a word. In this manner, Dr. Beaumont put an end to the controversy, despite it being well known that the published text was heavily edited and altered by the Church. Rumours persist, however, and it is believed that a copy of the original text was made by Sister Agatha before being presented to the Cathedral. 

It is common practice for two copies of any text to be made when created at a monastery or convent: one for the Cathedral and a second to remain behind in the Order’s own library. Curiously, the convent of Saint Gratus denies that any second copy exists, and Sister Agatha died before it could be confirmed whether in fact only one manuscript had been produced. It is believed that this second copy did exist, and that it has either been hidden by the nuns of Saint Gratus or, as some rumours suggest, been stolen from the convent’s library to resurface one day. In the meantime, forgeries exist in the hundreds, and plenty of mountebanks make a fine living with a printing press and a leather-bound book of gibberish purporting to be The Original Lives of the Saints.
