UlricExcerpted from An Account of The Lives of the Imperial Saints, by Dr. Archibald Beaumont. First Edition Published, 1698.

~

Saint Ulric was a warrior, and friend of Dunstan's. It was said that the two would often compete against one another in tests of physical strength, agility and endurance to determine who the best warrior in the clan was. There are several stories in the canons of both saints regarding their trials and contests, but it has never been made clear or confirmed which of the two men, if either, was ever determined to be the winner. However, that Ulric was entirely human and Dunstan was a half-angel speaks highly of Ulric's abilities.

Ulric holds the distinction, aside from Saint Mairin, of being the first saint elevated to that status without being a blood relative of Saint Avitus. Indeed, since it is difficult to measure relative time in the Valley of Death, it is unclear whether Saint Ulric ascended to Sainthood before Severinius found Mairin in the Valley, and brought her to Heaven. Regardless, Ulric was awarded his position in Heaven as a result of a long series of heroic and legendary deeds.

While Dunstan is the patron of soldiers and warfare, Ulric is the patron of the hero. While the military canon of Dunstan stresses the importance of the organised and well led combat unit, the canon of Ulric stresses the importance of personal heroics and bravery. For this reason, Ulric's followers range the gamut from chivalrous knights, to villainous mercenaries out for personal glory. The canon of Saint Ulric has room enough for both, and many in between, as the important thing is the fulfilment and pursuit of personal ambition.

Ulric has many knightly orders and clerical societies, but it lacks in any significant monastic strength. The inherent nature of his canon is often at odds with the more monastic virtues. However, some knightly orders are organised along lines similar to those of monasteries.

It is difficult to find a more stereotypical figure within the Empire than a Knight of Saint Ulric. The typical crusaders, questing knights and errant warriors, Ulric's loyal followers can be found in volume throughout the pages of history and of legend. However, in modern times, this stereotype no longer fits exactly. To be sure, Ulric's followers still contain enough heavily armoured and mounted knights to continue pursuing several crusades. However, the more modern face of Ulric's worship can be found in the young men that populate the many trading and merchant houses in the cities of the Empire. To these young men, Ulric is the patron of ambition and victory. The object of the quest may have changed, but the rules remain mostly the same. While a few centuries ago they might have taken up sword and shield to seek personal glory on the battlefield, this young breed of Saint Ulric's now take up ledgers and scales and seek their glory (and fortunes) on the battlefields of commerce, trade and finance. As a result, Ulric is now also viewed as the patron of these endeavours.
