==Natural Enemies==
thumb|400px
Bears are one of the many species of animal found in the Wild around Eastwitch. There are many varieties of these creatures which come in many colours, shades, sizes and temperaments. The bears are important as symbols to Eastwitch; they are dangerous, independent creatures which stalk through forest and field, quiet and free. Many of the villagers feel some sense of kinship to the bears, and all have respect for these creatures.

There exists, however, an unceasing conflict and challenge with the bears of the region. The hunters and guides of Eastwitch respect the bears, but they also view them as competitors, and also as challenges to be overcome. In the society of hunters, men rate each other by the size of the largest bear they have taken, and also by what means; by arrow, spear or knife. Young hunters are encouraged to attempt to kill adult black bears with the bow and arrow. A young man or woman who kills a bear is considered an adult hunter; a Hunter, or a Huntress. Older, more experienced hunters will attempt to kill larger bears, and use the spear. Only the most elite of Hunters (many Wardens or other highly skilled hunters) use the knife. Hunters who wield only the knife are given great respect, and those that take bears with nothing but this tool command the greatest respect that a hunter can receive in Eastwitch. A few men of the Grimhaste and Beorl families are known to have taken Grizzly bears with knives, but only the unknown or forgotten hunters of the Eastwitch and Grimwood families have ever killed an Eastwitch Grizzly with the knife.

===Black Bears===

The statistics for black bears are found on page 193 of the MM, and these may be used for black bears found in the Wild around Eastwitch. However, for the larger males, the 4-5 HD advancement should be used. Further, notable black bears with an intelligence score of 3-5 may be encountered. Black bears should also be treated as having Move Silently +3, and Hide +3. At night or in other dark conditions (darker forest) they have Hide +6.

Black bears may grow as large as 450 lbs. in this area. Typical adult males range from 250-300 lbs., however. A female may reproduce once per year, giving birth to 1-4 cubs. Cubs stay with the mother for 2-3 years before leaving her, and won’t be fully grown for at least 5 years. A healthy black bear may live as long as 25 years, but typically they live for about 8-10 years.

Black bears are not easy creatures to predict; some are very afraid of people, others are curious or aggressive around people. Some are less carnivorous than others, favouring berries and leaves for food, while some are almost completely carnivorous, and may even favour the taste of people and other humanoids. Thus, their reactions are not easy to predict. However, they all have an instinct of self-preservation, and only mothers will fight to the death, and only when their young are threatened. 

Black bears are the most numerous of all the bears of Eastwitch, and can be found close to the village. Many will range over the farmlands around the village, and some brave or curious black bears will even come into the village itself, lured by the smell of people and their activities. Black bears are not usually found far from softwood forest, as they prefer to make their lair in these dark, dense woods.

===Brown Bears===

The statistics for brown bears can be found on page 193 of the MM, and these should be used for the brown bears found in the wilds of Eastwitch and the Great Wood. For large males, the 7-10 HD advancement should be used. Old brown bears with an intelligence score of 3-5 may be encountered in the Wild around Eastwitch. These bears have Move Silently +2 and Hide +3. In grasslands, they have Hide +6.

The largest male brown bears my grow as heavy as 1500 lbs. Typical adult males weigh between 700-1000 lbs. Females may mate every year, giving birth to 1-3 cubs. The cubs will stay with the mother for as many as 4 years, and are not fully grown for 8-10 years. Very healthy brown bears may live for as long as 30 years, but typically they live for 10-15 years.

The brown bear is a larger cousin of the black bear. They are more solitary creatures than their smaller, black cousins, and are rarely found close to the village. Their colours range from light gold to chestnut brown, and males develop a silver chevron across their shoulders with age. These bears prefer to roam in hilly fields and planes, preferably close to a body of water which they will claim as their territory. 

Brown bears are timid for the most part. They will not interfere with people (humans and other humanoids), preferring to stay away from them. They will fight if cornered, but are more likely to run. The exceptions to this behaviour are mothers defending their cubs, and dominant males who are encountered in their home territory.

===Grizzly Bears===

The rules for grizzly bears are found on page 193 of the MM. There, grizzlies are listed simply as large versions of the brown bear. For purposes of Eastwitch campaigns, the statistics for Polar Bears, found on page 194 of the MM should be used instead. Large grizzlies (both males and females) should be treated as 9-12 HD advanced creatures. Grizzly bears have an Intelligence of 3-5. They have Move Silently +2, and Hide +2. While in plains and other terrain similar in colour to their fur, they have Hide +4.

The largest male grizzly bears are around 1800 lbs., but typical mature adults range from 1000-1400 lbs. Females only mate once or twice in their lifetime, giving birth to 1-3 cubs. The cubs will stay with their mother for as many as 5 years before setting out on their own. Grizzly bears do not reach maturity for at least 10 years, and the eldest of these bears may live 40 years with great luck and health.

Grizzly bears are found in the same colour schemes as their smaller brown bear cousins, but tend toward the lighter shades of brown and gold. Mature males develop a light-gold chevron across their shoulders. Grizzly bears are solitary creatures that dwell far from humans and other intelligent races. They prefer to dwell in mountainous areas, but will also live in large hilly areas, and often roam out onto the plains. Like their smaller brown bear cousins, they are also very territorial, and will claim a certain body of water, hill or mountain as their own. They will suffer no other bears to dwell in their territory, including grizzlies of the opposite sex.

Grizzly bears are much more confrontational that their smaller cousins. While they prefer to live apart from humans and other intelligent races, they fear none of them, and a man is just another meal to a mature grizzly. Grizzlies have been known to track men for many miles and over the course of days, and are renowned for their intelligence at ambushing their prey.

===Eastwitch Grizzlies===

The term ‘Eastwitch Grizzly’ is applied to the largest of bears in the Eastwitch area. Statistically, they are represented best by the rules on page 58 of the MM for Dire Bears. Large males should use the 13-16 HD advancement. These remarkable bears have an Intelligence of 4-5. While they have an alignment of neutral, these creatures are voracious and merciless. 

The largest of these bears may weigh as much as 3500 lbs. These bears have the natural colours of mature male grizzlies, but they grow silver and grey with age. The largest of these bears may be completely silver. Bears such as this become figures of legend, for their singularly unusual appearance.

These bears are grizzly bears that become invested with power through a subtle form of possession. The spirit of the Great Wood manifests itself in these bears, which allows them to continue to age and grow long past the normal limitations for grizzly bears. This manifestation is similar to the manifestation of the Great Wood which creates the Old Trees of the Deep Wood. A healthy grizzly that lives a long life full of much hunting and killing may be invested with the power to age and grow to become an Eastwitch Grizzly. Druids, and some magic can detect that there is something slightly wrong with these creatures, but little can be revealed beyond that. While the local people simply call these bears ‘Eastwitch Grizzlies’, unfortunate visitors or travelers who manage to escape from them have been known to call them ‘Devil Bears’.

Eastwitch grizzlies do not attempt to procreate after their investiture with the Spirit.

Eastwitch Grizzlies are voracious eaters, and constantly roam looking for food. They eat only large creatures, and as many as they can find. There is no limitation to their appetite. These creatures have no home territory or preference for a particular terrain. They often wander far from the Great Wood, but are compelled to return after some time.

There are normally not many of these creatures roaming about. A natural grizzly must live for a very long time before it can become invested with the Spirit of the Great Wood, and thus their numbers are limited by this factor. Further, they are hunted down by the Wardens when they are discovered. In days past, the Elves used to hunt these creatures to control the amount of damage that their appetites cause.

In recent years, the numbers of these bears has been growing, however. The elves mark this as one of the many signs of the Great Wood’s growing malevolence. The Wardens also note that they have more and more of these creatures to hunt down in recent times (for about the last 50 years).

=== Polar Bears ===

The rules for polar bears can be found on page 194 of the MM. These rules are suitable for polar bears that may be encountered in the Eastwitch area. The 9-12 HD advancement should be used for large polar bears (males and females). Some old bears may have Intelligence 3-4.

The largest polar bears are around 2500 lbs. The only polar bears encountered in Eastwitch are far-ranging nomads, and they do not have cubs with them. A single adult male or female may be encountered, or a pair of younger siblings.

In Eastwitch, these bears are sometimes seen in the dead of winter. This is only very rarely, and such occasions are noted as portents for a particularly long and harsh winter to continue (this may or may not be so).

Like the grizzly, polar bears do not fear people, and view them simply as an interesting two-legged food-source. They will not hesitate to enter farmhouses and other dwellings looking for food.

There are but two polar bear pelts found in all of Eastwitch; one on the floor of Eastwitch Grange in the Trophy Room, and one in the parlour of the Beorl family household.
