==Map Legend==

#This is the fork in the road that leads to the following places; south to the village over the bridge, North through the hedgerow up to Eastwitch Grange (the Hannoch mansion), west to Havilah and East into the High Forest, towards the Lost Peaks. The hedge row that is planted here was put here over 100 years ago by the nobles; it is almost 20’ thick at places, and over 15’ high. It is impassable, except through great labour and a sharp machete.
#The Bridge. This stone bridge is a triple-arched structure built by the Masons in 1630. The two middle posts of the bridge rest upon stony islands in the River Wen, which are favored places for youngsters in town to fish from.
#Village Centre. This area is dominated by a few features; the six large and venerable black walnuts, the large faces of the Inn, the Court and other buildings, and the village well. The walnut at the south end of the Centre has long been used as a message-board, and there are always many messages pinned or nailed to it. Some businesses keep directional signs in wood nailed to it, and Eastwitch happenings can often be found out about here. The well is a simple stone well, and is available to all.
#The Court. This large two-story building was rebuilt by the Masons and other villagers in 1708, after it’s predesessor burned down. It’s two floors are walled by carefully cut stone, and it’s thick timber roof has been painted a lively red, as have the exterior doors and window-frames. The lower level is dominated by one large room which severs as the court, and a town meeting place. There is also the office of the Sheriff and a small jail on the first level. Upstairs is the office of the Judge, as well as an apartment for him to stay in, and a library of town records. None are permitted into the records room without the Judge’s leave.
#The Green Grizzly
#Mason’s Sundries
#Greendale Emporium
#Garrison’s Smithy
#The Mason Family Household. Second only to Eastwitch Grange, the Mason Family house at the north-east of this area is an excellent example of stone architecture. It has also been built mostly of granite from a remote quarry, though green limestone has been laid in some courses, and in it’s many arches. A porch of timber runs all the way around the building, and a stone and timber barn are found in the back.
#The Mill. This place was constructed in 1584, as the keystone in the main arch indicates. The Millers themselves built this place at that time. It is a large building with an enormous water-wheel which turns all the grain in Eastwitch.
#Bowyer Household. This is one of the older buildings in the village. It is known that it was built slightly before the mill, by a family named Hawktide. This family has vanished from Eastwitch through marriage and bad fortune, and this house is now the seat of the Bowyer family. On most spring days, one can see many of the boys of the family fishing from the shore here, while some men build boats or plane lumber. The two buildings are stone and timber of no particular cunning, though stout and thick, both.
#Fletcher Household. This is the home of Fletcher family. It is found down a long path, overhung with great and old black walnut. The path is clearly old and often treat upon. There are three buildings here; the house, the barn and the shed. The house is a single floor, though large and long. It is made of solid timber. The barn is of pine-planks, as is the shed.
#Hannoch Fallow
#Miller Fallow
#Path leading south out of the village.
#Cemetery
