This company, set in the Galadron Mountain, mines for iron, copper, lead and tin, and whatever else they can dig up. The Co. was established in 1691 by Cedrick Jakestrom, a prospector from Urzheim. The mine was handed down to his son, Welland, in 1712, and it was during this ownership that the mine finally flourished, after discovering a rich iron deposit. In 1740, Welland died, leaving the mine to his son, and current owner, Kavenauh Jakestrom.

Kavenauh has eleven men working under him, including three of his own sons. These rough men live year-round at the mine site, emerging only two or three times each year to sell off their wares. They refine all that they pull out of the mine themselves, as it is easier to carry ingots down the river-path on the backs of ponies, than it is impure bullion. 

Ten years ago, Kavenauh hired a pair of men from Urzheim who are specialists in the manufacture of various types of steel, furthering their efficiency in traveling down river with goods. They now manufacture two types of steel, one being of excellent quality (for use in excellent quality weapons).

Two or three times per year, depending on their productivity and luck, Kavenauh sends six men and his train of ponies out of the mountains, and into Eastwitch to sell off their ingots. They sell them first to the Greathorns, who happen to be first on their route out of the mountains, and who also happen to give them the best price. Next, Garrison’s Smithy will buy up quite a bit of what is left. After that, the Emporium will purchase some ingots (for sale to some of the households who also have small smithies), but there is usually quite a bit of surplus. This surplus makes the men of the mine happy, because it is this that they bring all the way down the Wen, and into Argent, where it will be consumed.

The men of the mining Co. spend the whole year isolated in the mine up in the mountains, so the trip to Argent is a vacation of sorts for them. After selling off the last of the materials, the men are given their pay, and have a few nights on the town to spend as they see fit. As they are men that only see women once or twice each year, it is not tough to guess how they spend their money in that sinful city.

In Argent, Kavenauh, or one of his boys if he has not come on this trip, buy up most of the supplies they will need for the next six months up in the mountains. Stopping back in Eastwitch on the way home, they buy up the food they will require, spend a little money foolishly at the various businesses, to spread around the wealth, then gather their ponies and head back up into Galadron. Once there are enough ingots to laden the ponies, the other six men are sent on their trip down the river, and the cycle is complete.

They sell 10 lb ingots, which cost about 1 gp for copper, 2 gp for lead or tin, 3 gp for iron, 8 gp for steel, and 15 gp for high quality steel. They get less money in Argent, but it is worth the trip for most men.
