Much of the economic activity in Eastwitch is done through trade; exchanging rabbit pelts for a bottle of potato whiskey, or a basket of fish for a couple loaves of bread, and so on. Most people will gladly exchange coin though, and most coins are taken at their actual value, as a function of metal type and weight. A Waldheim Ingot is worth 2 gold in true value, and an iron piece only a couple coppers. Below is a list of the types of things which can be purchased in Eastwitch, organized by the place in which they can be obtained.

*Garrison’s Smithy
*Green Grizzly
*Greendale Emporium
*Mason’s Sundries
*Greathorn Smithy

==So You Want to Buy a...==

===Horse===
There are three places in Eastwitch to buy a horse. These are the farms of the Beorl, Grimhaste and Hamstead families. 

The Beorl family rears great grey steeds that they ride, but which others put wagons behind (effectively draft horses). These sell for about 100 gp for a young colt, to 250 gp for a 4 year old with good training. 

The Grimhaste family breeds both riding horses and war horses. Their riding horses are of fair quality and numerous, and can be purchased for 50-100 gp. Their medium war horses, which are known for their jet coats and white masks, are of a particularly strong breed (133% weight allowance) and go for 200-400 gp.

The Hamstead family has long made a profitable business selling their swift riding horses, though this will soon come to an end, as the family dwindles. The finest of their mounts are fast indeed (Mv 27-30) and go for around 200 gp. Lesser breeds fetch 60-100 gp.

===Dog===
The Boughberry family is noted for it’s ability to tame animals. Of particular note are their Verago, tamed timber wolf pups that they train as guard dogs and pets. The family has been at this trade for two generations (of halflings), and has it quite refined. They produce 8-15 trained year-old pups every year, which they sell for 50-100 gp. Many of the farms in the area have these large wolves prowling their fence rows, and many a ranger has a Verago for companionship.

===Loaf of Bread===
Or other daily perishable. Many of the households in Eastwitch produce extra bread, eggs, chickens, bails of hay, bags of grain, jugs of whiskey, bottles of wine, and so on. Many women will do business from their kitchen-door (most homes in Eastwitch have a door to the kitchen, in the back of the house), selling such things as they produce in plenty.

For example, Mariala Beogund, a widow of many years, opens her door in the morning, and the smell of her freshly baked goods soon wafts all throughout the village. She sells a loaf of rye bread for 1 cp, a half-dozen dainties (a pastry with raspberry or blueberry jelly in the centre) for 1 cp, and a morning-feast sandwich (toasted rye bread with fried eggs, a mound of fried pork and honey in the middle) for 1 cp, which comes with a glass of mead.

At many homes and family households one can purchase a chicken for 3 cp, or two dozen eggs for 1 cp. A 25 lb bag of oats will cost 1 sp, as does a 25 lb bag of potatoes. A gallon jug of Greyshield Potato Whiskey will cost you 2 sp, but the good stuff; Miller’s Rye Whiskey, will run you 4 sp/gallon jug.

And the list of small business transactions could go on. But it should be clear that a great deal of the economic activity in Eastwitch is done on a pretty small level; 10 chickens for a jug of ‘shine, and 1 rabbit for a night’s stay in a warm, dry bed.
