== The House ==

As the traveler approaches Eastwitch, he comes to a fork in the road. To the south, he may cross a bridge, beyond which clearly lies the village proper. He may continue along the road, and head eastwards into the dark Great Wood. Or, he may turn north, and head towards Eastwitch Grange.

Up an up he must travel upon this northerly trail. The traveler is beset upon both sides by a thicket of thorny and treacherous flora which extends in many places to over twice the height of a man. This thicket does not lend itself to passage in any way except up the hill, or back the way the traveler has come. Further, it is difficult at best to see through the thicket, which in places must be more than twenty feet thick. Towards the top of this mile-long hike, the thicket begins to wind a great deal, and also thins out, and offers a few glances at the mansion which sits atop the hill. At length, the traveler emerges from the thicket-road, and finds himself atop a great hill which commands a stunning view of the surrounding countryside; both cultivated and wild. However, the eye is wont to linger upon the dark house at the crest of this hill, and the huge tree which sits in front of it.

The house old, and this much is obvious. The tree, also, seems of venerable age, given its size. The sheer distance across its base is greater than two spans, and to the top of its dark branches, it must boast a height of over one hundred feet. The lowest boughs of this mighty and aged tree are no less than ten feet from its protruding roots, though as is the sinister custom of the Eastwitch Walnut, they come down close to the ground to interfere with the passage of people below. As is also the sinister custom of these beautiful, yet terrible trees, not a thing grows beneath it, and the ground is blasted bare.

The house is in scale to the great Walnut tree which dwells in front of it. It is by far the largest building in Eastwitch, being three stories high and over one hundred feet across. I should say that my initial reaction to Eastwitch Grange was one of sadness. This great manor hints at some glorious past, but clearly displays its age and want for maintenance. It is not that the building was a shambles. Rather, a culmination of many small details gave an overall picture of dereliction. The grounds were all grown over, and indeed, many nasty species of thicket and tangle crept up the side of the manor. The windows seemed dirty, but rather were simply opaque with age. The shutters seemed grey, like bleached bones of a sort. They were, however, intact. The roof had this same look; worn and towards the end of utility at a glance, but upon closer inspection bearing no grievous faults. 

I was met at the door by a decidedly dusty old fellow who introduced himself as Gether. This man was one of three men who are kept in Pol’s limited retinue. Gether invited me inside, and informed me that the Master of the Household was out hunting, but that he was expected back any time. He then simply turned about, and walked into the depths of the house. I should say that I was only scarcely surprised by this; I had heard many strange tales about Eastwitch Grange whilst gathering information in the Village. I confess that I took the unkempt gentleman’s absence for an invitation to look about the place, though I would regret this liberty later.

The place reveals its heritage as a hunting lodge at the outset. The building is of rugged and generous proportions in every detail; the ground walls are of stone that must be a span or more in thickness, the huge hardwood timbers used as beams and posts are found in girths that one just does not find in the City, and the interior dimensions of the place are all great through limited division of space. Where a Gentleman might erect several rooms in a given space in his manor, at Eastwitch Grange, every effort has been made to keep the building open. Indeed, the great entrance hall was of such a proportion that no light found the ceiling, and was too large to be adequately furnished. 

Of furnishings, though, I should say that they were abundant and of excellent quality. Not a single object did I find in that manor that was not constructed of thick and sturdy hardwood. The amount of Oak and Walnut in the place surpassed all Fine Homes and Institutions that I have, to date, observed. As I have mentioned, divisions of the space in Eastwitch Grange are few, and there are not closets or cupboards to speak of. Thus, one finds a multitude of solid cabinets, armoires, linen presses and the like. All of this furniture is of sturdy construction, but with the exception of a few (obviously non-indigenous) pieces, it is mostly deprived of ornamentation. And almost all furniture displayed the unkempt nature of the place. 

The visitor to Eastwitch Grange is hearkened to imagine throngs of hunters in days past abiding in the manor, for in every room and on every wall are found a great multitude of trophies from countless hunts; antlers there were, and too many to count. Of skins and hide, every species within one hundred leagues was represented, and in many sizes and varieties. Such things as stuffed heads and other trappings of taxidermy were numerous, and many fantastic creatures were displayed. In the West Wing of Eastwitch Grange is found the ‘Trophy Room’, and here did I abandon my self-guided exploration of the place. But I shall come to this in a moment.

I must first comment on the Gallery. This impressive area of the manor is in a style very common to the Fine Homes of the Nobility and Gentry in the City. It is a balcony of sorts, with one great wall covered in the finest portraits available for each member of the family. The other walls are all permeated by great arches leading to other parts of the house, and thus a great open space is created. I should say that there was far less lighting in this Gallery than one would expect in a Fine Home in the City. However, there was light enough from the fading sun coming through the dim panes high on the southern wall of the entry hall, that by drawing close and screwing up my eyes, I could take stock of the portraits on the Gallery wall. The Gallery has the faces of the Eastwitch Family which beget this settlement about 300 years ago. Many other faces are preserved upon this wall as well; however, I counted only twenty five portraits, from the Ancient Patriarch to the present day Steward of the Household. I am not sure if there are portraits missing, or if some of these ancient nobles were not given to being painted, but it seems to me that three hundred years requires more than the few generations recorded here.

However, upon looking at the plaque beneath Phin Eastwitch, a piece of the puzzle was solved. For the plaque read ‘Phin Eastwitch, Born 963, Settled Eastwitch 1087, Died 1108’! These numbers seemed extraordinary to me, and prompted me to examine closely the face of the man, in search of some signs of elven heritage in the face. But the face of this Ancient Patriarch could be no more remote from the Fair Folk. His is a face that is stern and fell. The artist records no smile upon the man, but rather a countenance of intense seriousness which seems to border upon anger. Phin was clearly a physical man, and one accustomed to the outdoors; he is clearly muscular and his face wears many lines and years of weather. His hair is seen on many of the faces in the Gallery; long hair worn loosely about the shoulders, with facial hair grown on the chops and lip, but no beard. And the eyes! I feel them still upon me! So keen are his eyes, like unto a predator, but displaying great cunning as well.

The portrait of Phin disturbed me greatly, to say the least of the matter. But as I looked at other portraits, I found his face again upon one Phaelos Eastwitch, and again in the sons of Phaelos. The resemblance is uncanny and unsettling, and hints at some riddle of heritage recorded on that wall. But this riddle I would never get a chance to solve. I was rather out of sorts after contemplating these portraits for some time, and decided that I could not bear the unceasing scrutiny of the many pairs of Eastwitch eyes. 

So I set off downstairs, and into the West Wing. I knew there to be a library of reputable accumulation in that wing somewhere, and aimed at locating it. But I got no further than the ‘Trophy Room’. This great room commanded my attention for the rest of my ill-guided tour of Eastwitch Grange. If the rest of the house can be said to be detailed with the trappings of generations of puissant hunters, then this room can only be described as a menagerie of great volume and variety. The lighting of this room was all together neglected. A lantern on the landing of the stairs on the west wall cast some light, and still more light came from the great entry hall, from which I entered. But no more light was there than this. Still, a great many things peeked out of the shadows of that room, and beckoned me to enter.

The floor itself was carpeted with the pelts of bears of a size I have never even heard of. From the ceiling, fowl of all sorts were suspended. The walls were covered in their entirety with antlers, pelts, mountings and various weapons which would have the most diligent of book-keepers working for a week to log. The perimeter of the room was decked out in full-sized mountings of such things as bears, great deer of many varieties, and many dangerous beasts bearing scales, teeth and claws. They were arranged in no particular way, and indeed they seemed to me crammed into the space they occupied. The centre of the room was likewise filled with these large mountings, and various things upon tables and cabinets. I should say that there was twenty feet by twenty of these things in the centre of the room, and in no particular order. Those towards the centre were difficult or impossible to ascertain. Indeed, the whole place was overwhelming. I should think that in full light, it would be a wonder, except for the thing I saw. 

As I was walking around the vast taxidermied menagerie, I came to the south side of the room. I was examining a most extraordinary pelt of some great, pure white creature of enormous size, when I noticed something shiny in the confusing collection of trophies to the north of me. The light from the entrance to the entry hall was shining off something, and a crawled nearer the thing to examine it. It seemed like a large jar of some sort. I was not much further away than the length of my nose from the thing, when a brighter light suddenly appeared to the north. In a moment I shall never forget, the light did pass across the jar, and the shape of a man’s head was revealed. I was frozen with a combination of wonder and terror. I thought first that this must be some monster, some orc or some such thing. This would be hideous enough. But the light shifted (it was Gether coming from the northern passage with a lamp), and revealed to me flesh that was clearly pale with death, though horrifyingly similar to mine own. I must have let out a start or a cry, because Gether came running at that instant towards me. He stood me up and began to walk me out of the Trophy Room saying such things as ‘Pol wouldn’t want to hear about wandering visitors’ and ‘keep yer feet and yer eyes in place where I puts’em’.

I was simply numbed with terror, contemplation and speculations. A corroboration of facts and suggestions were piecing together a complicated puzzle in my mind. I was in no condition for further delving into Eastwitch Grange. I sat quietly in the entry hall until Pol and his Gamekeeper returned.

Pol had known that I had come to Eastwitch Grange hoping to have a look at his library, and during a respectable supper we talked briefly about my studies in this remarkable country and its people. But I should admit that I was still dazed by my memory of many things I had seen in the house, and when supper was finished, and Pol offered to take me to the library, I was wracked with a dread of great magnitude, and, as politely as my nerves would allow, I declined. In the manner of a true Gentleman, the kindly Steward offered me every chance to return at my leisure, and I thanked him, and was on my way.

With my back to the thick front doors, I faced the twilight of the dying day. As I looked across the overgrown yard, I could not help thinking that all I had seen in that house; those things which seemed so troubling, were all found on the first floor and upon the Gallery level. Recalling that most nobles in the city prefer to hide their darkest secrets at the extreme heights and depths of their dwellings, I gave another shudder. I walked hurriedly across the yard, past the giant tree. It seemed to creak, as with laughter at my frightened passing. I came to the entrance of the treacherous thicket, and gave one last look over my shoulder. I noted that the place was three stories high, as I saw a dim light through the aged and obscuring panels of a second floor window. Looking to the third floor, to the attic windows, I thanked all the benign Gods I could recollect, that I never saw what was on the other side of those abysmally-dark, obfuscating panes of ancient glass.

I ran then, down the hill and through the thicket-road. By the time I arrived at the local inn where I was staying, I was quite a frazzled mess. In the taproom, I partook of several gouts of the local ‘whiskey’, whilst making small talk with the proprietor (who must have known that I was quite out of sorts). At length, the kindly man asked me what ill I had come to. Said I to him ‘I have just returned from Eastwitch Grange’. Said he to me ‘Pol is a friendly fellow, isn’t he?’.

I violently threw back the foul remnants at the bottom of my glass, gave the proprietor an incredulous look, and retired for the night.

After a completely sleepless night, I set out for home. I was glad to make my leave of the place. I should confess that never did I encounter markedly peculiar behavior of the people of Eastwitch, but never did I encounter anything expected.

I have never returned to Eastwitch, and I plan never to return.”

-Notes by Jacob Woolson,
Cultural Surveyor and Professor,
Lord’s University.
