A Tale of the Darkest Deep
Campaign: Gonzadrel / The Fringe
Source: Email thread, March 21, 2025
Author: Gus Miranda (player-written narrative)
Character: Sir Pellias (Gus) - interior monologue aboard the longboat

---

After many sleepless nights, Pellias decides he will try sleeping in the hold. He removes his armour, lowers himself down, and stretches himself out as best he can amongst the sleeping passengers.

It is hot. And humid. And smells rancid, as no one has bathed in weeks… perhaps months or years.

He can hear Owin above him through the planks telling some inane bullshit story to Hurl as they row the boat.

Crispin snores loudly next to him, contentedly asleep.

Liltariel's body is rotting away down here. Why the fuck haven't we thrown that overboard yet?

He can hear Muttonchop getting a handjob from the She-Halfling. They think they are being quiet and discreet, but Pellias can hear every gods-damned stroke.

He curses at the circumstances that have led him here. Landless. Penniless. His squire has probably deserted him. Worse, his squire has probably sold Big Lothar and now Pellias is fucking horse-less. That smarmy little bastard! When I get out of here I am going to beat the piss out of that rotten squire and then make him drink it!

Crispin snorts and begins snoring even louder, and Pellias reaches for his dagger, but he's left it topside with the rest of his gear.

He seethes.

Muttonchop cries out as he ejaculates, and the girl giggles.

Pellias stands up in a rage, forgetting the low clearance, he hits his head hard on the deck above, and a small gash opens on his brow dripping warm blood into his eye.

Fuck! If they only knew! Piety! Humility! The other ones! All those fucking vows and virtues!

He swears under his breath as he bursts out of the hatch onto the deck. "I am going to murder every last fucking peasant on this forsaken abomination of a gods-damned boat!" he shouts as he reaches for his sword.

Hurl and Owin stop rowing, while Fishhook looks up from where he is studying his spellbook.

Pellias stops himself as his eye catches the inscription on his blade.

"The gods damn you all!" He yells as he drops his sword, and then screams impotently into the darkness.

---

From: Todd Burry (DM)
Date: Friday, March 21, 2025

This is great! In my head, this is why Sir Pellias took over Muttonchop's watch when the carcass crawlers attacked.

Thanks for the session, gents! I hope you liked a procedural hex crawl with many a manner of random encounters. I was delighted to see the gaseous spores come up.

---

From: Gus Miranda
Date: Friday, March 21, 2025

I had a blast last night. I love a good hex crawl, and it definitely evoked remembrances of crossing Anauroch for me. The sentient ghouls trading with those Creepers was fantastic. That for me was the best part, because we were the complete assholes entirely in the wrong. We walked into the store, were told to wait our turn in line, decided "nah, fuck this," so we murdered the other customers while they were trying to run away, robbed the corpse, and then said to the shopkeepers, "looks like it's our turn to trade now!"

The fight with the fishmen was quite hairy. It could've gone much more poorly if the dice hadn't turned in our favour at the end.

Civilisation up ahead! However, it occurs to me that we were on the water for 10 days and about 300 miles. Who knows how far we travelled to get to the Goblin Market in the first place? And it had been a few days to get to the Ziggurat initially. And from Barnuck it might be many miles to get to the surface. It is just as likely that we emerge 1000 miles from Gonzadrel as it is that we pop out into the city sewers, or something. It would be crazy if we came out into the cavern of the Maggot God!

---

From: Les Blackwell
Date: Friday, March 21, 2025

We know that Barnuck is close to Gonzadrel. Like a couple days away, I seem to remember.
