Crispin's Tale: The Luckless Cleric
Campaign: Gonzadrel / The Fringe
Source: Email thread "Gonzo-drel", February 15, 2025
Author: Stephen Robertson (player-written narrative)
Character: Brother Crispin "the Calamitous" (Stephen), telling his tale aboard the longboat

---

The longboat, its dragon prow a stylized snarl against the oppressive darkness, sliced through the still water of the underground lake. No wind filled its tattered sail, yet the vessel moved with an unnatural, gliding motion, propelled by unseen currents in the cavernous space. A strange, ethereal green glow emanated from phosphorescent patches clinging to the damp wood of the ship, casting an eerie light on the faces of the adventurers huddled together. Far above, the cavern roof was lost in impenetrable black, while the lake's far shore remained an unseen mystery.

"And so," Brother Crispin sighed, dabbing at a nonexistent speck of dust on his already threadbare robes, "Lady Luck smiled upon me once more. The piercers, vicious beasts they were, fell upon us with a fury. Poor Elara, she never even had a chance to draw her blade. Bartholomew, well, his brawn didn't do him much good in the end. And young Timkin… such a promising little gnome. Such terrible luck. Only by the Lady's grace was I spared."

Sir Pellias snorted, polishing his sword with a disdainful sniff. Fishook, his nose buried in a thick tome, muttered something about "irrational superstitions." Hurl, the manservant, grunted in agreement, though it was unclear if he had actually heard anything that had been said.

"It was… well, it was awful," Crispin continued, seemingly oblivious. "We were traversing a narrow passage, you see. Elara, our brave scout, was ahead. She didn't see them. They looked just like stalactites, hanging there, waiting. Then, thump. One fell right on top of her. Poor Elara, she was always so sure-footed, but… well, it seems she'd stepped on a patch of… of unusually slippery moss or something just moments before. Lost her footing, you see, just as the piercer fell. A most unfortunate coincidence. She cried out, poor thing, and then… nothing. Just… a sickening crunch." Crispin shuddered. "Bartholomew, a big, strong fellow, rushed forward, greatsword raised high. He was always one for a dramatic entrance, you know. But as he ran, the greave on his left leg suddenly gave way. The metal plate buckled inwards, locking his leg at the knee. He stumbled forward, poor fellow, his arms windmilling. He would have regained his balance, I'm sure, but he tripped over a stray cave rat that darted out of the shadows unexpectedly. He fell forward, impaling himself quite thoroughly on a rather sharp stalagmite that jutted from the cavern floor. And then, as if that weren't enough, just as he was… well, expiring, another piercer fell. Right on top of him. He barely had time to scream."

Crispin paused, shaking his head sadly. "Young Timkin, our little… well, I wasn't quite sure which school of the art he followed, but he knew a lot about arcane things… he tried to help. He rushed towards Bartholomew, fumbling with his components pouch. But in his haste, he… he somehow managed to get it tangled in his own beard. He gave it a yank, you see, trying to free it, and… well, he ended up ripping out a whole clump of his beard. The pain caused him to cry out and throw his head back… right as another piercer fell. It landed squarely on his face. He was gone before he even hit the ground. And the worst part is," Crispin added, a note of genuine distress creeping into his voice, "I didn't even get a chance to… to do anything. To heal them, you know. It all happened so fast."

The bedraggled cleric sighed, his moustache drooping lower than usual. "I was at the back, you see. Saying a prayer to Lady Luck. And so she… she saw fit to spare me. Again."

Crispin wrung his hands, his gaze drifting towards the flickering green glow near the boat's mast. His companions – Sir Pellias, Fishook, Muttonchop, Owin, and Hurl – sat in varying states of unease.

"This," Crispin continued, his voice barely a whisper, "this was the third time, you see. The third time I've been the… the sole… beneficiary of Lady Luck's… capricious favor. Like the time with the… well, you remember I told you about the gargoyles. And then there was that unfortunate incident with the… the, ah, the sentient fungus. This time, well, it was the piercers." He shook his head, a faint shudder running through his thin frame. "The first time, well, that's what set me on this path. That's what made me realize the… the power… the… presence of Lady Luck in my life. I was the only one left. The others… they perished. But I… I survived."

He looked at them, a hopeful glint in his watery blue eyes, his large, bushy moustache drooping further down the sides of his face. "So, what I'm saying is… perhaps… perhaps you might consider me a sort of… lucky mascot? A… a conduit for Lady Luck's… benevolent influence?"

Muttonchop, ever the affable halfling, winced. "Oh, Crispin," he said gently, "I'm so sorry about your friends… thrice over. That's… that's truly awful."

Owin, the bard, strummed a melancholic chord on his lute. He had a thoughtful expression on his face.

Crispin's smile faltered. "But, Muttonchop, don't you see? Lady Luck… she chose me. Out of all of them. Me."

A chilling silence descended upon the group. They looked at Crispin, at his pale, thin frame, at the haunted look in his eyes. A dawning suspicion crept over them. It wasn't that Crispin was lucky. It was that he attracted bad luck. Fatal, party-destroying bad luck. He wasn't a mascot. He was a harbinger.

Fishook, despite his disdain for superstition, felt a shiver run down his spine. Hurl, though incurious, could sense the shift in the atmosphere. Even Sir Pellias paused in his polishing, his brow furrowed.

Muttonchop and Owin exchanged a look of pure sympathy, mixed with a healthy dose of dread. They understood. Crispin, in his self-deprecating, praise-laden way, had unwittingly revealed the truth.

Crispin, unmindful of their dawning horror, continued, "I mean, it's not as if I wanted anyone to get hurt. It's just… Lady Luck… she just works in mysterious ways. And I… I seem to be… both accursed and blessed." He wrung his hands again, his voice trailing off, "Perhaps… perhaps it's a burden… a cross I must bear."

No one spoke. They simply stared at Crispin, the "lucky mascot," the bringer of doom, as the longboat drifted silently onward, deeper into the cavern's heart. They were suddenly aware, with a chilling suspicion, that their association with him was likely to end in tragedy. But what could they do? Fishook, Hurl, and Sir Pellias wouldn't countenance letting superstition dictate their actions. And Muttonchop and Owin, well, they just felt too sorry for the deluded cleric.

As the cleric's voice trailed off into rumination, Fishook lowered his book, a calculating look on his face.

"Crispin," the wizard said, his voice clipped and sharp, "As a man of science and reason, I naturally ascribe such events to the inherent chaos of the universe rather than the whims of some fickle deity. However, you're clearly a walking disaster. But you can heal. So, fine. Come along. Just try not to get us all killed. Clear?"
