SOURCE: Gonzadrel Notes.docx
CAMPAIGN: Gonzadrel
NOTE: Raw session notes — Chaos Keep dungeon crawl, Liltariel's death, underground escape, goblin market shopping spree.

---

Sister Pristelle of Callistra
Town of Yert 


Expenses


Old Keep – people coming back late, screaming then drawn away. Villagers disappearing. Hoofprints, bird prints, claws. Zilverbergs booked it out of there.

The Keep was dedicated to the Denizens of Chaos before it was defeated by Law
The villagers returned feral and bestial.

A hut with a west-facing door. A man who was the troll-tracker. He didn’t go back with the Zilverberg. His name is Verl. He ain’t right in the head.
Some think there is a great treasure vault of a Lost Dynasty.

53 gp
Elven short sword set with emeralds
Simple green cloak with a map sewn in. 
Large silver torc with skulls branded with Chaos runes
12 semi-precious stones
3 scorched hauberks

1 chaos censer
Blackened iron coffer – locked  - 3 cones of incense wrapped in unholy chaos cloth
Blackened flail
3 maces

Chaos door
Going down into the earth
The burning urge
The baleful storm
The raging tempest
Fire, Ice, Storm, Hate

Secret door:
1 cp
3 sp
4 gp
Three upended chests,
Hurl discovers a false bottom in the chest, loses a finger
Time seems to weigh heavy on this 
2 silver emerald rings (mundane) – they are not cursed
Vial – Owin identifies it as black lotus oil (the Warriors of Sand would drink it to heal their wounds and drop dead afterward)
A fine tabard marked with chaos

Next room:
Pool of ichor
Sir Pellias tosses a CP in and a skull with slightly glowing eyes floats up to look at him. The pool is full of skulls. Pellias feels like taking one with him. The pool is very deep – maybe 20 ft.
Alcoves have cloaks with chaos markings – worn by Owin and Hurl
Fishook puts on the tabard
Hurl fishes out a couple more skulls. They look the same.
Two more cloaks – Liltariel and Pellias put them on

Chaos door – Pellias opens it and sets off a fire trap
After a hallway with a jog in it
Inside is a funeral plinth with a hide armor and a huge battle axe, and the room is super cool
The axe is retrieved.
Back to the pool room – there are mosaics of a pair of brothers – one seems to have the axe that we found in the other room.
The tentacles in the mosaic may be a symbol of an ancient power. 

Moving on – we encounter a gelatinous cube. Pellias mercs it.
190 gp
Ornate ring – Owin says it’s magical – it’s a big old Ring of Protection +1

Continuing down the stairs, we come to a beach and see a dragon-prowed ship hoving into view. There is a large menhir that may have been the one in the mosaic. The top of the menhir is fashioned into a bowl that a candle appears to have been burned in (red candle)
Fishook lights the candle, and the boat creeps forward
The boat is unmanned.
We climb aboard.

….

Death of Liltariel at the hands of the Beastmen of Chaos

….

We float for days, meeting a friar named Crispin on the boat.
We eventually reach a strange pool in a vast cavern, meet 7 svirfneblin. We shepherd the refugees to a market that the svirfneblin
Gnok is the spokesgnome.
Goliath eel carp in a strange pillar of water.
There are goblins and ogres and all sorts. There’s a lot of damage from the tsunami caused by the chaos island sinking.
We meet two dwarves: Hansrik Kragbuckle and Brughik Kragbuckle
Shopping spree
Muttonchop buys:
Mirror of the Shadow’s Gaze
Gloves of Endless Grasp
3 doses of Dreamer’s Leaf Tea
Knucklebone of a Forgotten God
Crispin buys:
Spine of Never Dying




--- EXPENSE TABLE ---
Liltariel	Muttonchop
576	1153
30 accommodation
20 wagon	20 wagon
40 pony
30 pony gear
