Owin - Character Introduction and the Tale of the Melusine
Campaign: Gonzadrel / The Fringe
Source: Email thread "Possible new addition to our party in The Fringe", February 5, 2025
Author: Gus Miranda (player-written narrative)
Character: Owin the Bard (Gus)

---

Sir Pellias, Litariel, Muttonchop, Fishook and Hurl, emerge from the Keep. The group is scratched up, and in need of a rest, but not the worse for wear. As they cross the planks over the dried up moat that surrounds the ruins, and approach their camp by the old tree, they notice a newcomer sitting and talking with Alwyn and Sister Pristel.

The newcomer is a man with long dark hair, and a thick moustache. He looks somewhat emaciated and road-worn, seemingly as if he has been carved out from one of the thin, leafless, nearly dead, solitary trees that dot the moor. He sits on the back of the wagon beside Sister Pristel, hungrily eating a bowl of porridge and talking animatedly to Alwyn as the young page tends to the horses, but listens rapturously.

The man is wearing a wool kilt that had perhaps once been dyed in a colourful purple, yellow and blue pattern, but has since faded away. His legs dangle from the back of the wagon, strange tattoos criss-cross his muscular legs. He wears chainmail that has clearly seen much use, and in need of much repair. Around his shoulders an orange mantle meant to keep him warm, but like the kilt seemingly faded and worn nearly threadbare.

As the party approaches, the strange man hands his bowl to Sister Pristel and leaps down from the wagon to meet them.

He stretches his arms out wide, to show that not only he is unarmed, but that he has removed his sword and laid it behind him on the wagon.

He speaks in Meadlish, "Well met, and peaceful tidings. The gods have named me Owin, and that is what I am called. I apologise for the intrusion into your campsite. I am but a lost pilgrim who has been wandering these Moors for far too long. Your camp is the first sign of civilization I have seen in a very, very long time. I am grateful for the hospitality, and will repay you for what I have been given. I am told by this Holy Woman that there is a settlement not far from here, and I would be most indebted to you if you could allow me to travel with you back to that village."

< Will let your PCs react as you see fit >

---

Later, as the party is resting up at the campsite in preparation for entering into the lower level of the Keep, Owin is sitting with his back against the large oak tree and takes out a pipe, filling it with a strange weed that emanates an aroma you've never smelled before. He leans back, taking a few puffs, and addresses Alwyn:

"Pray, young Alwyn listen and I will tell you the tale of how I came to wander in these forsaken moors."

Alwyn sits, and listens with rapt attention.

"Far from here, very far indeed, there is a small village of my people. Nestled deep within a verdant forest, where sunlight drips through the leaves like scattered gold coins, and a river, clear and cold, meanders down from the mountains of the gods. The fields are filled with wildflowers in every colour, the cottages surrounded by bountiful gardens and fat happy livestock. You can hear the buzzing of the bees, and chirping of crickets, and the songs of a dozen different birds. The summers are long, warm and fertile, the winters short and kind. That was my home, where I was born and lived happily with my wife and children.

On an especially pleasant summer's day, I wandered off over the hills and into the forest beyond our little valley. As I admired the sturdy trees of these woods, I happened upon the most pristine lake I had ever seen. How those virgin waters shimmered in the golden light of that perfect summer afternoon! Lazy, giant willow trees ringed the lake, and I found the largest and laziest and decided to take a rest and sleep awhile in its shade.

When I awoke, I found the shadows had lengthened, and my stomach was growling, so I decided to cast a line into the waters of that lake, so that I might return home to my wife with something worthwhile for supper to excuse my long absence.

I remember how the wind whispered its soft song as it flowed through the boughs of the willow trees.

It was not long before the silver flash of a nice fat trout darted among the reeds and with a mighty splash, breached the surface leaping into the air, my line hooked tightly to its mouth! The lake had offered me a generous prize that day from its cool depths.

As my twitching treasure lay beside me, gasping for life, something new disturbed the waters of the lake.

I turned to face this new arrival, and as the waters bubbled and frothed, up emerged a womanly figure, whose beauty I have never seen equal! Her alluring skin, pale as snow and supple as the ripest peach. Her lips, full and red, her eyes the blue of the morning sky! Her hair spun silver, shimmering and shining with each ray of sunlight! Ample breasts, perfect in every way, welcoming in their softness.

I was entranced, Young Alwyn!

Then she spoke! A gentle voice of honey and roses, meant to soothe the soul and tempt the loins.

'What's this?' said she, 'a handsome prince has come to claim a prize? Oh, but you have taken that which is not yours! The prince must pay a price for this robbery of the lake!'

Well, Master Alwyn, I am not ashamed to say that when faced with such wondrous beauty I fell upon my knees, and barely managed to speak the following words: 'My lady of the lake, you must forgive me! I did not know this lake was yours! I did not mean to take that which is not mine!'

To which she replied, 'Well, Princely-Thief, you must make amends and pay the price for that which you have stolen!'

Not a small amount of panic came upon my heart! Despite her thinking me of royal blood, I was but a humble and poor peasant. I did not know what I could offer her as payment.

And so I said, 'My lady, I must confess, I am but a simple man who owns no tokens, trinkets or treasures! I cannot offer recompense for that which I have taken.'

At this she gave a moment of quiet contemplation. I should have considered running at that moment. But - and this you must believe - I was so enchanted at the primal nature of her beauty, that I could not - would not! - think of running while I still held her wondrous image in my sight!

She spoke again: 'I have decided then, Prince-Thief. You have caught and taken one of my friends, and I must demand you make amends. For the actions you have done, you will deliver onto me a single kiss upon my lips!'

Heavens, young Alwyn! Had she really spoken those words? My heart beat like a frightened foal, for she could not have asked a sweeter price!

With little hesitation, I waded into the lake, coming face to face with her alluring gaze. I reached out, and traced my fingers along her cheek, her blue eyes blazing like captured stars. I leaned in, and felt her warm breath against my face, her breasts rising and falling with expectation. She trembled slightly, and I leaned forward pressing my lips to hers, kissing her deeply.

Then, she softly pushed me away and sank back into the water of the lake, without another word.

It was nearly evening, and I was still some way from home. With a melancholy heart, I collected my trout and returned home through the woods as quickly as I could manage.

That evening, I cooked that trout for my wife and children. Its flesh, barely touched by the fire, flaked off the bone with the smallest touch. Each morsel of that fish tasted of the wild berries and supple earthiness of the forest. The slightest whisper of smoke embraced it, adding a richness of flavour I had never before tasted!

It was intoxicating!"

---

[Note: Owin's tale continues — he returns to the lake day after day, drawn by the Melusine's beauty. Eventually the water spirit's attentions become possessive and dangerous. Owin is cursed to wander the world, forever searching for his lost home, which vanishes each time he thinks he has found it. This is the origin of his endless wandering in The Fringe.]
