The Goblin Market: Session Commentary
Campaign: Gonzadrel / The Fringe
Source: Email thread "Gonzo-drel", February 14, 2025
Authors: Stephen Robertson, Gus Miranda

---

From: Stephen Robertson
Date: Friday, February 14, 2025

"Come buy, come buy:
Apples and quinces,
Lemons and oranges,
Plump unpeck'd cherries,
Melons and raspberries..."

Thanks, Todd, for a super-fun adventure last night. The Goblin Market has taken its place in the D&D firmament as one of my favourite in-game settings. Thanks also to Gus for slotting Sir Pellias into the role of jock bully to Crispin's anxious nerd and Les for Fishook's and Hurl's comic relief in the chase scene through the market.

I don't know if any of you have read Rivers of London, which is an urban fantasy series set in the UK, but I highly recommend it as another piece of fantasy with a goblin market.

The series would be right up Todd's alley, in particular. The conceit of the world is that magic is real and has been leveraged for use by an arm of the establishment since it was codified by Isaac Newton in the seventeenth century. World War II more or less wiped out practitioners on both sides of the conflict. Central to the mythos is the idea that bodies of water in Britain have gods associated with them - they take mortal avatars, usually women, that act as powers that can be bargained with.

---

From: Gus Miranda
Date: Friday, February 14, 2025

At the Goblin Market:

Pellias is about as impressed as a 19th century British aristocrat with certain ideas regarding "Empire" would've been upon landing in India or Africa. These goblins are savages, and the sooner he is away from their savage food and savage smells the better. He is walking around the market with a preconceived notion that they are all thieves and bandits, and each "creature" he sees he just imagines how he will murder them in order to get out of this filthy, forsaken rectum of the world he's landed in. Half an hour after arriving at the market, Pellias is looking at his metaphorical watch and saying, "Can we fucking go, now? Our longship's double parked, so just hurry the fuck up." But he did buy the Lantern of Treasure because even a bigot needs money since castles aren't cheap.

Owin is the opposite. He is entranced and amazed by everything he sees. At every stall and shop, he is stopping and asking the shopkeeper questions and trying to get their life story, and the story behind every piece of merchandise. He'd spend the whole day in one shop if he could. Some indulge him, most after realising he's not actually going to buy anything, just get frustrated and shoo him along.
