== Tome of Knowledge: The Daelen ==

The Daelen are those who live in the more central and eastern regions of the Great Dale. They consider Uthmere to be an unfriendly place of grasping, ambitious folk (\"coin-rakers\") who want to swallow up the entire Dale for their gardens and ranches. Since the Disbanding they consider the Uthmaar to be selfish individuals who used the Circle and the Dale to their economic advantage. The Daelen strongly dislike how the city-dwellers and merchants are encroaching upon their lands annexing whatever they chose to. This view is also shared by the druidic Circle of Leth, who promote and spread it throughout the region.

For the most part the Daelen are honest, hardworking folk who simply want the outside world to leave them alone while they recover from the demonic onslaught at the turn of the century. Most are goat herders and shepherds who live near the borders of Lethyr Forest, but some live on fertile soil and farm simple vegetables that can resist the region’s climate.

They are a mix of Chondathan, Nar, Theskian, and more recently, Impilturian blood. The bloodlines of ancient Narfell can be found in some of the older clanholds of the region. These “pure” bloodlines spark some of the conflicts with the Impiltur colonists as they try to settle further east. These confrontations often lead to bloodshed, forcing newcomers to find lands that do not press upon Daelen holdings.

Clanholds often hold 5-10 Daelen families and most are friendly towards the Nentyarch, the Circle of Leth, and his Nentyar hunters. Information is passed from Nentyarch to Daelen through the Second Circle of Leth who control the Nentyar hunters. The hunters then act as liaison and inform the clan leaders of any news.

Within these clanholds barter is preferred to coin when it comes to trading as the Daelen often find that, \"coins are too easy to lose\".

== Daelen Clanholds ==
 

Mavalgard

Home to Clan Maval, a sturdy family of hardscrabble farmers and herders, Mavalgard is typical of the dozen or so isolated clanholds in the central and eastern reaches of the Great Dale.  Fiercely independent and stubbornly self-reliant, the Mavals came to this land from Impiltur almost two hundred years ago, determined to carve out a life of their own from the barren wilderness.  Today, the hold is home to an extended family of perhaps fifty souls under the rule of Abriam Maval, a short-tempered old curmudgeon who is far wiser than he lets on.

Mavalgard is a bit of an architectural oddity.  It was once a rough motte-and-bailey keep with a fieldstone tower surrounded by a ramshackle wooden palisade.  However, the events of the Spellplague transformed the land drastically, churning up the ground and ripping large earth motes out from directly beneath the the motte itself, essentially shearing Mavalgard in two.  Stubborn as they are they set to rebuilding their home as best they could, with a new crater that eventually filled with water they found themselves at the foot of a nice-sized pond.

Luckily, this particular earth mote is more or less stable and its slight rotation is easily countered by the large number of chains and ropes that tether it 100 feet above the ground.  Today there are a series of rope ladders and bridges that descend into the bailey, and they have erected a wooden tower with a bridge that spans to the floating keep.

350px|thumb|right|Clan Noonym's wooden fortress.
Mavalgard is surrounded by several rude homes of fieldstone and thatch burrowed snugly into the steep hillsides to avoid the worst of the winter winds.  The Mavals maintain friendly relations with several other clanholds within two day's journey and these holds gather three or four times a year at Yeshelmaar to drink, trade, decide matters of justice, and arrange marriages.

Noonym's Rest

The people's of Noonym's Rest are descendants of the ancient Nar and have been combating demons for centuries.  After the fall of the Nar Empire and subsequent release of their demonic legions, the forests and countryside were laid to ruin by Balor commanders.  Noonym's Rest was where one of the last remaining commanders was slain by Tyeer'Noonym and his allies.  They were leading a caravan of refugees south into the elven-guarded Forests of Lethyr when the Balor caught up with them.  The battle was epic and the story was told for generations, but alas, in the end Tyeer'Noonym's wounds were too great and the mighty warrior fell.  His sacrifice instilled courage in the hearts of the survivors and they decided that the very ground they stood on was their foothold for taking back the Nar Empire from the remaining fiends.  That day, along the southern edge of the Dunwood, Noonym's Rest was founded in honour of the final confrontation that cost the ancient warrior, Tyeer'Noonym, his life.

Their dream of reclaiming the Nar Empire, while noble, was somewhat naive.  Over the centuries their numbers have never grown over two or three hundred people, as their home stands on the forefront of a seemingly endless war with the Abyss.  

Their camp is quite large and backs up against a cliff face that they have carved into a series of grand halls and tunnels.  The land surrounding the Noonym Clan has nearly been clearcut up to two miles away to supply the timber needed for their sturdy outer wall and support beams for their cavernous homes.  They keep large herds of goat and sheep, and have several hunting teams that bring in the necessary food stuffs for the community.  They trade with Bezentil and Yeshelmaar when they can and fully support the Circle in whatever assaults or patrols they can spare bodies for.

Carwyth

Thylgard

Lythan Hold

category:Great Dale Peoples
