== Tormish Doctrine ==

Torm became the master of Celestia after the heroic self-sacrifice of the legendary Tyr (who perished decades ago when defending the upper realms against an overwhelming demonic incursion).  He now shines as the beacon of pure law in the cosmos, and stands as the most civilized and civilizing force in the pantheon. Truth, loyalty, and a steadfast devotion to a righteous cause are his gifts to his mortal followers, and he is an inspiration to many of his fellow deities as well.

The Tormish church includes the greatest number of paladins of any religious organization in the world, and his priests, known as holy champions, are accomplished warriors, ready to defend the principles of law and order.

His temples take the form of mighty citadels, their imposing architecture a symbol of Torm’s earnest stability in the face of chaos. From these edifices, Tormish priests and paladins are sent out into the world to root out corruption in any form, often imposing their own sets of laws and procedures on nations they feel are too open to lawlessness.

The faithful celebrate two important holy days.  The Divine Death (13 Marpenoth) commemorates the day when Torm and Bane destroyed each other during the Time of Troubles; the True Resurrection two days later honors Torm’s return to life, while Bane (at least temporarily) still lay dead.

== The Hall of Brilliant Justice ==

Father Bostin Marsk is the current High Master of the Hall of Brilliant Justice and a prominent member of Uthmere society.  He is a kind and just old man who spends his days in the libraries and lecture halls teaching youth ideals such as justice, truth, and order.  His right hand, Larson Thesk, takes care of the military training of the young men and women of Torm.  Their training runs the full gamut of divine and physical combat, ensuring the strongest of sword is bound by the purest of will.

There are at least three-to-four dozen paladins and clerics of Torm reside in the Hall of Justice at any given time while an additional ten bolster the city guard during six hour shifts.  When not on patrol duty they tend to spend their time training under Thesk and studying holy texts in the oratory, library, or chapel.

Most trials are held within one of two courtrooms within the Halls of Brilliant Justice.  Court hearings are made in front of a panel of five scholars and clerics of Torm who act as judge and jury.  The accusing person (or people) builds a case against the defendant and afterwards the defendant then builds a counter-case against the accusations made.  The panel then cross examine both parties and leave the room for a period of time to deliberate and return to announce their verdict.  If the defendant is found innocent he or she is released immediately.  If the defendant is found guilty of a crime, the severity of the crime is determined along with the punishment to suite said crime.  If either the accuser or defendant does not feel comfortable building a case themselves the Hall of Brilliant Justice will provide them a law scholar for assistance.
