Level 2 Human Ranger|Rogue

== Items of Interest ==

*Enslaving the Darkness, Book
*Bloodcoin of Chro'ax
</div>

== Current Goals ==

*Mission from Master Tomlin

== Tome of Knowledge: Solomon Graywall ==

Life on the Farmstead

Solomon was born on a farmstead north-east of Uthmere and close to the edge of Dunwood Forest, in the Great Dale.  His father, Brekson Drummond left the farmstead shortly after he was born.  He abandoned Solomon Graywall, his mother Ensidia Fay, and his grandparents, Job Drummond and Emily Drummond.

Solomon's mother was a loving woman and due to the circumstances coupled with Ensidia's kind and loving disposition, the mother and son became quite close and devoted to one another.  Solomon never learned much about his father.  His mother and grandparents never spoke of him much, the most information they gave him was that he was a woodsman.

Solomon's grandfather, Job, was a quiet pale man who tired easily and spent most of his time sitting alone and staring off into his past, or muttering to himself.   Solomon once asked his grandfather what was wrong and what led him to acting weary and disheartened much of the time.  His grandfather simply gave the young boy a sad smile and a pat on the shoulder before being sent outside to play.  Job Drummond clearly had a strange past, some of that past also included a stint as an adventurer during the tumultuous times that followed the Spellplague and it allowed Job to fall into no small amount of wealth.  It had been that coin that had allowed the Drummond farm and manor to sustain itself over the last five decades

Solomon's life had always been quite isolated.  All of his family felt that there was nothing but ill to be found in the world outside of the Drummond manor and a close eye was kept on Solomon and he spent very little of his life in any place besides the Drummond farm and manor house.

Solomon's life was peaceful but lonely.  He spent time befriending the farmhands and hired help and Solomon's grandfather suggested that work quickly fills up a day and allows one to stop thinking about how they would rather be doing something else.  Solomon's days were filled with work which contributed to making him into a hale and hardy boy.  Strong, agile and fleet of mind but he struggled with people in general.  A mother and grandmother that coddled him, a grandfather that seemed lost in the depths of despair and farmhands that were kind to him and helpful but possibly only so because he was the son of the man that paid their wages...all of it contributed to Solomon struggling at times when it came to interacting with people that were not his family.  When Solomon wasn't working on the farm he would spend time watching the dark forest in the far distance and wondering what it might be like to walk under it's dark canopy.  When Solomon grew weary of his life, he would simply disappear.  He practiced hiding and after learning all of the hiding places on the farm and in the manor he grew more bold and simply through observing people and his surroundings he pushed himself to the point where he was able to hide simply by finding a suitable shadow and nearly disappear inside of it.

He would stay silent, watching and listening until the farmhands or his family began to worry about him at which point he simply appeared from where he had been hidden.  It irritated his mother and grandmother to no end but hiding was a form of control for Solomon in a life where he never got to exert any.

The first time Solomon left the farm was with his grandfather during his eleventh year.  The forest that he had spent so much time watching in the distance and wondering about what was within it was now looming before him after half a day's travel.  The forest looked just as dark and foreboding as it did from a distance; in fact it seemed even more so.  His grandfather seemed less beaten down however.  The old man that barely had enough energy to get out of his chair now nearly had a spring in his step.  His grandfather began to teach Solomon in the ways of woodcraft.  Very basic woodcraft at first, a mushroom here and a strange footprint there but over the course of weeks, months and years, Solomon began to become quite knowledgeable about the forest.

Years later, when Solomon was in his twenty-second year, on one such woodland foray Job didn't say much, seemingly distracted and uncomfortable about something.  He kept looking around and fingering a palm-sized disc on a silver chain around his neck that he had never seen him wear before.  Upon reaching a clearing with some flowers and a large flat stone in the center, he took a seat on a rotting log.  He patted the spot beside him signalling that Solomon should take a seat next to him.

\"I've never told a soul what I am about to tell you,\" he said pausing a moment, \"not even my dearest Emily.\"  He went on, \"Your family name isn't Drummond, son.  It's Graywater, as is mine, and I used to be quite the sell-sword in my day.  Even did a few jobs for the Uthlain's father, some 40-45 years ago.\" With that he chuckled and let out a laboured cough.

Once the coughing fit had subsided, Job told a tale of why he hid this from Solomon, starting way back in his adventuring days with the Graywater Gang he lead for nearly a ten-year.  The Gang were veterans of treasure hunting, mercenary work, and dungeon delving. They received work from all manner of noble, wizard, and lord from every city or backwater spanning the entire unapproachable east.  Their motto, \"Get the job done and get the hell out.\"

The Graywater Boys numbered five in all. There was  a human cleric of Helm, Malekki the Sure.  Hailing from northern Narfell, a half-orc barbarian named Korvax.  A repentant Red Wizard and recent refugee of Thay, Corinth the Abjurer.  Job's brother, Lorn Graywater, was another brawler who preferred his set of talon-shaped knuckles to more common weapons.  Finally, Solomon's grandfather being the morale support and leader of the group.

One of the jobs they took later in their adventuring years was from a group who preferred to remain anonymous.  When pressed on the subject the go-between simply replied, \"If you must know you may refer to those I represent as 'the Remnant.'

The Graywater Gang were tasked to find and enter the old Nar ruins of Val-Murthag in the flat lands of the eastern Dale and retrieve a form of ancient currency.  Anything else of value they found would be theirs to keep in addition to the twenty-two 12-kilogram-bars of gold redeemable upon completion.  The small company received two additional bars of gold upfront as a sign of good will.  They accepted the job almost immediately.

The Graywater Boys asked for help from the Circle of Leth but the response received from a Nentyarch was, \"Your request is denied.  Even if I had the manpower to spare in these chaotic times, I still would not condemn a brother or sister of this Circle to an unspeakable death and soulless eternity.  Nor shall any member of the Circle assist your troop on this suicidal foray.\"  The Nentyarch continued with greater emphasis,  \"May whatever gods you worship be watching closely on this road you walk.\"

The gods, however, were attending to matters elsewhere.

It took the Graywater Gang three days to reach the cursed ruins of Val-Murthag.  Two days they searched through those tunnels, tombs, vaults, and ruins.  They fought creatures that would strike a lesser man dead at the mere description of them and they hid from others greater still.  Until finally, they found a circular chamber deep in the bowels of the ancient city at the end of a hundred foot bridge of stone.  The room had no windows and no other doorways, yet was bathed in red glowing light.   In the center of this room stood an altar, on it lay an intricately woven red silk cloth with a stone tablet and a medallion covered in dust resting on it.  Having been in a few situations like this before, they decided to let their eyes rather than their fingers do the touching.  Corinth was not able to decipher the ancient Nar text scrawled on the tablet.  The medallion is what they were hired to get from this terrible city of madness.  However, none of them wanted to disturb it fearing the medallion to be cursed.  Your grandfather mulled this over, it was he who accepted the job and if there is a curse on the damned coin he would bear it.  He reached out and took it, along with the tablet.  The glowing red light at the height of the room slowly dimmed and blinked out.

Job was paling visibly as he continued the story.  White knuckled as he clung to that disc around his neck.  He continued on to tell how Corinth sent a magical flare into the air to shed some light on the room.  There on the wall opposite the door they entered, a black arch slowly climbed the wall etching its way up the stonework.  Pulsing darkness and black soot as it passed six feet, then eight feet, then twelve feet.  The stench of sulphur and ash flooded the room.  They had got what they came for and started to move toward the doorway out, it's always better to run and live another day.  But as they turned around they found the doorway they had just entered to be completely sealed up and seamless with the rest of the walls, as if it had never been there at all.  They turned back to face the gaping maw of the Abyss  and prepare as best they could for whatever was to come out of that portal.  The room was noticeably hotter now and they were having a hard time breathing with all the foul air and soot that came billowing out of the demonic archway.  The room began to shake intermittently, subtly at first but growing much more intense as time passed.  The group had a hard time standing, Job actually fell backward and caught himself against the wall just in time to see the first leg of the creature pass through onto their plane.

The hoofed-leg checked its footing and then out of the smoking gateway emerged a fully formed sixteen foot Balor wreathed in flame with huge torn leathery wings and reeking of death.  In one hand a menacing blade of unspeakable power and in the other a coiled whip that crackled with flame and embers as it unfurled to the now charred stone floor.  Its shoulder armour was draped with skewered people stuck on meat hooks writhing in agony and shouting out blood-curdling screams through the choking smog.  It turned its head toward the adventurers with red eyes blazing and barked at them in the foul demonic tongue, hand raised toward Korvax's direction.

The sound that emerged was that of boulders being ground together mixed with the final cry of a dying animal.  Korvax shuddered, vomiting at the sound of it with blood seeped from his eyes and ears.  After a few moments he dropped to the floor dead, to the horror of the remaining four.  Job was visibly shaking even now at the retelling of these events.  Corinth was steady enough to recite a powerful shielding spell that enveloped the rest of the group.  The Red Wizard was not quite fast enough to save them though, the Balor's flaming whip seized Lorn by the throat and pulled him out before the shield fully formed.  The three of them watched in revulsion as Lorn's screams were cut short by having his torso ripped in half.  His warm blood was devoured by the demon as if it were poured from a flesh-tankard directly into its mouth.

Finished with the body, the Balor hurled it at the shield  and cleared the room in two strides.  The demon was upon them, raining colossal blows on the abjurist's shield one after another with all its might.  Malekki had tears streaming down his face as he beseeched his lord Helm to intervene.  The darkness closed in fast as the magical light was almost completely shrouded by smoke and it appeared to be the end for the Graywater Boys.  Corinth grew visibly weaker with each brutal strike against the barrier, collapsing to the floor after one exceedingly savage strike.

Solomon's grandfather became less sure of the story at this point, clearly the entire situation had weighed heavily on him and the terror and impending death worked on his psyche and muddled his memories of what transpired.  Job was at least certain that he had reached into his pocket and grasped the medallion almost instinctively as he lay there wide-eyed in terror.  Staring up at that gruesome creature pouring all its hatred into the demonic blade.  Deafened by the sound of the screams and the shouting and the guttural demon speak.  And suddenly everything was quiet.  He found that he was laying in the grass outside the forest of Lethyr not a stone's throw from the Great Road.

Job let out a long sigh at this part of the telling.  \"That's enough for now, I need to take a break.\" Job said with a strangely deep voice, visibly shaken.  Solomon asked him if the others were ever heard from and his grandfather just shook his head.

\"I killed them, son.  I was foolish to take the job, and I never did finish it really.  I decided to keep the medallion, I was too afraid ... too afraid of ...\" his shoulders slightly shake as he cried quietly into his hands and Solomon thought he smelled a hint of sulphur in the air.

He comforted his grandfather as best he could but his grandfather clearly had no desire to be consoled.  The telling of the truth began as a trickle for his grandfather but there was some liberation to be found even when speaking of horrific things if  and Job's speaking of the truth became an avalanche.  \"I have lied for so long....so long.  I shared this tale with your father shortly after you were born and my sins were quickly visited upon your father.  Your father was killed.\"

Solomon's world was quickly unravelled and everything that he had thought was true and real was starting to become nothing more than smoke and lies.  Sorrow and confusion plagued Solomon but cold anger knifed through it all and his quiet, cold response was, \"Who?  Who killed my father?\"

\"He did.\" His grandfather replied.  His gaze unwavering as he spoke to Solomon.  He pointed across the clearing at the black ooze that had started to boil up out of the earth.  It reeked of sulphur and ash and burnt the grass it encroached upon in an oily ring of fire.  The cold, calming fury Solomon had been feeling quickly melted into panicked fear at the sight of what was transpiring.  Solomon could feel it in his soul.  Something terrible was happening.  Something terrible that he couldn't or shouldn't see.

\"I'm sorry son ... I'm so sorry.\"  Job's voice now taking on a desperate and determined tone, \"I just want my gods damned soul back ... don't you get it?  This damn thing took my soul and I WANT IT BACK!\" Job snarled, reverting back to that terrible voice.  \"This damn thing saved me only to tear my soul out as payment ... I need it ... back.\"

He continued, \"Your father was the first payment and you will be the last.  He ... it ... promised ... two souls for one.  My children's and children's child.  My children's and children's child.\"  He repeated.  \"You will give me my life back ... I will ... be whole again.\"  Job started to laugh, softly at first but then starting rock back and forth in a deep inhuman guttural laugh.

Solomon tried to crawl backwards deeper into the thicket but his mind reeled at what he was witnessing and he couldn't seem to move, frozen in sheer terror at what was happening.  A flaming hand emerged from that inky black cauldron of shifting darkness.  Clawed-hand sinking into the earth as rippling muscles flexed and churned to pull itself out.  A fiery Balor head and torso emerge into the mortal realm once more.

\"Nentyar attack!\" A cry was heard from the forest, as dozens of arrows flew over Solomon's scrambling form in almost every direction.  Trees and plants started to uproot themselves and emerged from the tree line surrounding the glade and marched towards the Balor.  The demon growled and its unholy voice spilled into the forest, the sound was terrifying and the last thing Solomon saw was the fiery crackle of its whip before he lost his senses and the world melted away in toxic cloud of sulfur, blood and fear.

Joining the Circle of Leth

Solomon awoke weeks later in a comfortable bed in what appeared to be the centre of a tree.  A druidic master of the Second Circle of Leth entered the room and introduced himself as Master Tomlin and informed Solomon that he would be safe there in Mauberg's Oak. He spoke  of how a patrol of the Circle of Leth had managed to stall the demon's entry and stop the claiming of Solomon...right up until when the demon battled free and rampaged through the countryside.  The battle claimed a large number of people and counted within those that fell to the demon's wrath was Solomon's grandfather and everyone on the Drummond farm; his grandmother and mother included.

Solomon was entirely alone in the world.  His entire life had been uprooted by the insane and selfish lies of his grandfather and dozens of people had been forced to give up their lives to slake the thirst of a demon.

With nothing and no one, Solomon was offered to stay with the Circle of Leth and Solomon quietly but gratefully accepted the offer.

Solomon was left with a deed for the Drummond lands that had been razed by the demon, some coin and a small tablet and his grandfather's medallion.

Years passed and Solomon found himself trained in the ways of the Circle of Leth.  Solomon did not walk the primal path as most of those of the Circle of Leth walked.  He was knowledgeable in his woodcraft but Solomon sought out solace in the shadows.  He preferred to be left alone and he would be tasked with watching a specific area and he would simply take a spot and blend into the surroundings until he was nearly invisible.  Were someone to arrive and attempt to defile the forest or the land he was observing, that individual would find a crossbow bolt put through their heart and never know where it came from.  Solomon passed through the forests like a ghost.  He found it difficult to trust people after having been betrayed by his grandfather and rather than try to work through everything that was still unresolved in his head and his heart, Solomon simply stayed out on continual assignment. It allowed him to carry the emotional and spiritual burden that he had been tasked with and also allowed him to avoid contact with other people.  He took it upon himself to pay lip-service to Silvanus.  Not worshipping a god while living and working with druids was ill advised so to decrease the likelihood of awkward conversations he claimed to worship Silvanus who seemed to him to be a more combative and merciless god when it came to defending the forests and the wild.

At one point during his time with the Circle, he had briefly encountered a scholar who Solomon believed might be able to translate the mysterious tablet he had found years back when he was recovering from his encounter with the demon. The scholar's name was Fenrius Eismoor and with the help of a sizable amount of gold, the scholar was able to discern that it was of Nar origin and read as follows:

Here lay one of the blood coins forged by the demon lord Chro'ax, an entity beyond measure that we have had difficulties enslaving.  Dozens  of these powerful artefacts have been forged in the putrid depths of his realm and scattered throughout Narfell by the minor demons we have enslaved over the recent months.

It calls to and discreetly seduces the bearer to its will, granting powers beyond our kin.  Prolonged use of these coins comes at a hidden cost to the bearer.  With each use of these cursed devices the users soul is slowly drained and bound within the coin.  Condemning the individual to a soulless \"unlife\" where Chro'ax dominates their thoughts and victims would sooner die than relinquish the coin.  We believe that Chro'ax extracts and feeds off of the souls stored in these coins and can form portals tied to his plane within close proximity to reclaim each coin on the last day of every 20th year.

We have put out the word to the remaining strongholds of our empire but this curse has come at an inopportune time.  The war with Raumathar has cost us dearly, their  battle mages are devastating our country side while these bloodcoins slowly entice and cripple our people from within.

A trap has been set here to draw the demon back into our world.  This powerful coin is shrouded in magics preventing the demon from detecting its whereabouts, stalling its retrieval.  Once the remaining coins have been found and destroyed we will recover this lone artefact and use it as a lure.  When this war ends and we open our vaults we shall return and slay him for the thousands he has corrupted with these tainted coins.

~ Revlinth'az, Sovereign Potentate to the Nentyar

Solomon has spent a number of years with the Circle of Leth and choosing to avoid \"promotion\" in rank to greater levels of authority within the Circle of Leth.  Higher ranks leads to speaking with people and spending more time with people.  When all that Solomon wishes to do is disappear within the dark, cool embrace of the forests of the Great Dale.  The power of the coin that is his family's dark legacy weighs on him heavily and rather than deal with it, he simply chooses to isolate himself from everyone and simply forget about the \"Coin of Chro'ax\".

Solomon reports to Master Druid of the Second Order, Tomlin Swiftmend.  Many others of the Circle look upon Solomon as an outcast.  He was deemed an unpleasant fellow to deal with and although he did help the Circle at times, it was generally accepted that Solomon Drummond was a non-believer whose goals happened to parallel the Circle of Leth.  That view coupled with the \"protection\" of Tomlin Swiftmend, people seemed to leave Solomon alone and accepted his inclusion in the doings of the Circle of Leth.

Solomon was about to leave on another patrol one day when Master Tomlin informed him of the need to have a conversation.

The old druid looked anxious as he spoke.  Something that Solomon had never seen before.

\"What I am about to tell you is to be kept in the utmost confidence.  If this knowledge were to reach the ears of certain ... organizations, the dire consequences could not be overstated.  It's common knowledge that over 1,500 years ago this land belonged to Narfell and that their ruins are scattered throughout the region.  Well, over the years we have slowly acquired a vast compendium of their books and writings but the restoration and translation of these codices has been painstakingly slow.  Recently however, we have uncovered some passages about an artefact of considerable power that was used during their demonic summoning rituals. What we do know is that it is one of a set of three devices and that this particular one is a blade of sorts.  The ancient Nentyarch used these to slice through the material plane into the abyss and form a temporary rift between the two.  Essentially, a portable gateway into the realms of madness.  We don't know it's name as of yet and to put it bluntly, the Circle of Leth hadn't the faintest idea as to the existence of this unholy trinity.  For now, we are calling the artefacts the 'Narfell Triune' and one of them is buried beneath the settlement of Uthmere.  Because of the growing tension between Uthmere and our people it would be quite bold of us to approach them in any number.  We have no idea what Uthmere or Impiltur would do with such knowledge, so this must be a covert assignment.  I have been given the task of selecting a member of the Circle to enter the city, find this piece of the Triune and destroy it.  I would like you to take up this quest.  There is an seemingly endless pit of molten rock deep in the bowels of Val-Murthag.  If that doesn't destroy it, at least it will be hidden and unreachable by anyone seeking it.  There is one small matter that I need to mention.  You were chosen for this because you have continually shown a lack of desire to really belong to the Circle.  I have never...ever questioned your loyalty to me, or to the Circle but you know full well that others have not always approved of you being a part of what you are doing here.  It turns out that your inclination to be alone has allowed you to hone your skills in ways that will be ideal for this...task.  I am well aware of your desire to work alone in such matters and at first glance, this task might seem like it is best suited for just one person but the Circle feels that you will need some help.\"

This earned an irritated mutter from Solomon as he quickly replied, \"Aye, that or the Circle needs to burden me with a spy to safeguard their own interests.  I do not like to be used in such a fashion Master Tomlin but because you ask it, I will see it done.\"

Master Tomlin simply smiled and clapped a hand on Solomon's shoulder.  \"I wouldn't have expected anything less from you, my lad.  Your companion will be an elf.  No slouch with a bow and as strong in her woodcraft as you are, of this I'm certain.  Try to be cordial.\"

category:Great Dale PCs
category:Steve
