rightTesh and Solomon are on the third watch together one night, camped out while on the return trip from East Watch.  After spelling off Xabbu and Will, Tesh kicks dirt onto the fire that the two previous watchmen let grow too large, while Solomon does a quick and silent reconnoitre of a 50-yard perimeter.  Soon both men are sitting back in camp, on opposite ends of the same log, their backs to the fire, looking out in opposite directions.  Both are comfortable to be facing away from each other, keeping vigilant eyes towards the black of night.

Tesh quietly rummages through his back pack and produces a small jar of oil and a rag, and begins to oil his weapons and armour as quietly as possible.  The night is still and quiet, with scarcely an animal scampering through the bushes nearby.  Tesh, uncharacteristically, breaks the silence.

“Didn’t make a goddamned difference” he mutters under his breath, mostly to himself.

“Eh?” is the whispered response by Solomon.

“Taking a bounty, rescuing a greedy merchant, killing some orcs, killing some bugs…all of it amounts to nothing, Sol” Tesh continues in hushed tones as he continues oiling his blade.  Solomon’s response is something between a grunt and a snort.

“I didn’t come here for this, Sol; to chase the coins of rich robber-barons.  A few orcs dead…means nothing.  Those bugs would have eaten them, or the other way ‘round eventually.  All we did was risk our necks to speed up the process, and earn a few coins that were probably stolen from honest people as taxes in the first place.  I don’t know if I’m any better…” Tesh trails off muttering things under his breath.  Solomon listens silently, his nods reported by the subtle creaking of his leather armour.  The pair is silent for a while.

After a couple minutes, Solomon breaks the silence.  “So…” he says; half a question, half a dismissive.  

“So,” Tesh says, now turning half way towards his friend to speak.  “What are we doing, Sol?  Who are we helping?  Ourselves?  Isn’t there something better we can do?”  Solomon responds with a shrug of his shoulders, which gives a distinctly different sound of creaking leather than his nodding head.  He turns his head halfway towards his friend to listen.

“I fell like I should keep this to myself, but maybe you understand” Tesh whispers.  He pauses, waiting for some response from Solomon that never comes.  “I grew up in Scardale, which is quite a ways away from here.  My dad was a good man; he was a veteran of the Nihelblung Incursions of ’44.  Everywhere we went men bought him drinks and asked to hear old war stories.  But he would just politely take the drink and change the subject to farming.  That’s what he really loved.  He loved ploughing fields early in the morning, and ploughing my mother in the afternoon; I had six older brothers and sisters” Tesh chuckles, a little too loud for the liking of either man, and they both go still and silent for a while.  After a couple minutes, Solomon whispers “and…”

“…and we had a great life.  Greenwold Hollow was the name of our farm; about four miles from town, it was.  We grew corn, wheat, vegetables, raised livestock; dad loved sheep the most.  He spent a lot of time with them in our more distant fields, and that made for some jokes back at home, but I went with him a few times. He just liked to watch them eat, carefree, while he watched the wood-line.  I once asked him on one of those trips about the war.  You know what he said?”  Tesh pauses, and there is a nearly inaudible creak in Solomon’s leather which passes for a ‘what?’

“He said to me ‘Teshy, boy, I’m not a soldier.  I’m a shepherd.  A shepherd watches his sheep.  When he sees a wolf, he kills it.’  I knew he meant more than just sheep and wolves.  He never said anything but had two meanings; that was his way.  It used to drive my mom crazy.” Another silent pause for a couple minutes passes, as the two listen intently as a small gust of wind rustles the leaves.  When it subsides, Tesh continues.

“Well, the wolves came again.  This time, it wasn’t bugbears and goblins.  This time it was the Sembians.  Men.  Those are the worst wolves.”  Tesh hands his oil cloth to Solomon, who begins to wipe down the back of his neck guard, the sound of his creaking nods diminishing even as Tesh continues on.

“One day a dozen mounted soldiers, Sembians, came with some scroll-reading thief.  The man read us some document that said our farm was his, under some confounded law or bargain or something.  I knew things would end in blood, and I was right.  This was going on all over Scardale, and I think dad already knew something about it and had a plan.  Anyway, dad was polite-as-you-may with the thief, and packed us up then and there.  When we were all ready to go, the thief said we had to come to town to be ‘registered’ or something like that.  Dad said they were leaving the dale, and weren’t going towards town.

“That was when I realized I had been left out of some plan he had with my older brothers.  Dad tried to insist that they would go their own way, and that the soldiers and the thief should be happy to have our farm without a fight, but some soldiers just need a fight no matter what.  There was an argument, blades were drawn, and in the end, my father was laying dead on the soil he loved, and my two older brothers were dragging me into the woods, while the soldiers dragged off my sisters and mom.”  Tesh is dead-quiet for about five minutes after this.  Solomon makes little noise while he oils his blades, and strops one knife on a length of leather, as though Tesh had said nothing at all.

After a while, Solomon stops stropping his knife, and says “then…”

“Then, I found out there were plans in place.  My brothers brought me to a camp in the woods, and there were dozens of other families there, all kicked off their farms, and all getting ready to resist the rotten damned Sembians.  My oldest brother, Lucas, was sort of like a sergeant among then, I think mostly because of dad’s reputation.  He mustered me into a skirmishing outfit, and we started our resistance.  For the first couple of months, I only used my bow.  I shot a few men at long range, and I killed some half-orc mercenaries up close that the Sembians had hired to flush us out.  That was easy.  

“I had a talk like this one night with Lucas.  He told me about dad and his sheep and wolves; I guess dad told us all the same thing.  I told him dad was wrong. ‘Being a shepherd made dad vulnerable; it tied him in place and weighted him down with…us.’  Lucas said that dad had told him having sheep was the one thing that made life good, and that the responsibility hardened him.  ‘No one is tougher than a shepherd’ he always said.”  Tesh goes silent again for a while, and this time he takes up his bow and begins waxing the string and the belly of the bow.  He carries out this task in silence until it is complete.  

“So when the Sembians came, I guess dad didn’t know if they were wolves or not.  They didn’t look like wolves; they looked like you or me.”  Tesh pauses to listen to another gust of wind, then continues.  “Dad was slow to react, and it got him killed and my family tore apart.  We rebels fought our small battles on the edge of dale for a few months, but then word came to us that they were interrogating our captured relatives to find out our location.  Lucas and Tuigan, my middle brother, and I went to town to get our sisters and our mom.  That’s when I…”  Tesh trails off and the stillness and black and quiet of the night became almost oppressive.  

“That’s when you…”

“Mistook the sheep for the wolves.  We stormed the fort they were keeping our family in, and found out we came too late.  They had killed my sisters and my mom in front of all the other prisoners to set an example.  I guess they thought that if they killed the family of the war hero of the Nihelblung Incursions, it would send the right message.  It did.

“By the time we got to town, the Sembians had found our camp; someone had given us up a couple days earlier, and I can’t say that I blame them.  Anyway, as we were coming to town to do our thing, our camp was being raided and burned by the Sembians, as we were attacking the fort in town.  By the time we were coming out of the fort, the Sembians were already closing in around us; they had found out our plans, and were poised to end the resistance for good.  

“It was a long battle, and when it was over, my brothers were both dead, and the rest of our company too.  I managed to kill a pair of soldiers in close combat; I cut one’s throat and he died pretty fast. But the other I stuck in the belly with a spear, and I couldn’t get it out.  He was on the ground and I was on top of him pulling for all I was worth to free it, but it was stuck, and each sickening yank I made on the haft made the boy on the end of it squeal like a skewered lamb, and I looked down at him to see that he was begging me to leave him alone to die.  He was probably younger than me, and in the end he started bawling for his mother and father.  He was just a sheep too.  I just left him there and ran.”  Tesh stops his story there, and the two quiet sentries finish up their maintenance on their gear, and put their supplies away.

As the first grey hint of morning strikes the eastern skyline, Tesh puts out the fire completely, and Solomon does another 50-yard perimeter patrol.  When Solomon gets back, he starts to pack away supplies on one of their horses.  There is one more watch yet, and usually the last watch packs up, but these two are picky about how things are packed, and prefer to do it themselves.  As he’s stuffing a bag of oats into a saddle bag, Solomon asks “Where did you run to?”

“Here, Sol.  Right here.”

category:Great Dale PC Narratives
